versions/v1.7/modules/en/pages/storage/storage-validator.adoc, before:

= Storage Validator

https://github.com/harvester/storage-validator[`storage-validator`] is a utility that performs basic tests that validate a storage solution's compatibility with SUSE Virtualization virtual machine and volume lifecycle operations. It is designed for:

* Cluster administrators: Verify that your storage solution is correctly configured and optimized for SUSE Virtualization.

* Third-party storage partners: To complete the https://www.suse.com/product-certification/suse-certified/data-protection-for-virtualization-certification/[SUSE Certified Data Protection for Virtualization] certification for your storage solution, you must run this utility and submit the results to `certifications@suse.com`.

The utility tests the following operations:

* Volume creation and usage
* Volume snapshot creation
* Offline volume expansion
* Virtual machine image creation using the specified StorageClass
* Virtual machine booting from the created image
* Virtual machine live migration
* Hotplugging of two volumes to a virtual machine

== Prerequisites

* SUSE Virtualization cluster with three or more nodes running the https://www.suse.com/suse-harvester/support-matrix/all-supported-versions[latest Prime version] (x.y.1)

* Hardware that meets the minimum xref:installation-setup/requirements.adoc#_hardware_requirements[requirements for production use]

* Network and port setup that meets the xref:installation-setup/requirements.adoc#_network_requirements[requirements]

== Configuration file

To use the utility, create a configuration file named `config.yml` that includes the relevant fields. The utility uses the values in this configuration file when performing the validation tests.

|===
| Field | Description | Default Value | Required

| `namespace`
| Namespace to run tests in
| `default`
| No

| `imageURL`
| URL to a cloud image
| No default value
| Yes

| `storageClass`
| xref:storage/storageclass.adoc[StorageClass] to be used for volume creation
| The cluster's default StorageClass is used by default.
| No

| `snapshotClass`
| VolumeSnapshotClass to be used for snapshot operations
| A VolumeSnapshotClass that matches the StorageClass is used by default.
| No

| `vmConfig.cpu`
| Cores allocated to the virtual machine
| `2`
| No

| `vmConfig.memory`
| Memory allocated to the virtual machine
| `2Gi`
| No

| `vmConfig.diskSize`
| Size of the virtual machine's boot disk
| `10Gi`
| No

| `skipCleanup`
| Option to skip cleanup of resources after validation tests are completed (useful for debugging failures)
| `false`
| No

| `timeout`
| Number of seconds the utility waits before terminating the validation run
| `600`
| No
|===

[NOTE]
====
Snapshot creation requires that the StorageClass and VolumeSnapshotClass use the same provisioner (CSI driver). For example, if the StorageClass uses `lvm.driver.harvesterhci.io`, the VolumeSnapshotClass must also use `lvm.driver.harvesterhci.io`.
====

Example of `config.yml` content:

[,yaml]
----
namespace: default 
imageURL: "https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/Cloud:/Images:/Leap_15.6/images/openSUSE-Leap-15.6.x86_64-NoCloud.qcow2"
storageClass: lvm
snapshotClass: lvm-snapshot
vmConfig:
  cpu: 2
  memory: 2Gi
  diskSize: 10Gi
skipCleanup: false
timeout: 600
----

== Running the utility

`storage-validator` accepts the following flags:

[,shell]
----
storage-validator -h
Usage of /tmp/storage-validator:
  -config string
    	Path to config file (default "config.yaml")
  -debug
    	Debug mode
  -kubeconfig string
    	Paths to a kubeconfig. Only required if out-of-cluster.
----

Example of output:

[,shell]
----
storage-validator -config ./sample/config.yaml
INFO[0000] 🚀 initiate: preflight checks
INFO[0003] ✅  completed: preflight checks
INFO[0007] 🚀 initiate: ensure volume is created and used successfully
INFO[0015] ✅  completed: ensure volume is created and used successfully
INFO[0015] 🚀 initiate: ensure volume snapshot can be created successfully
INFO[0022] ✅  completed: ensure volume snapshot can be created successfully
INFO[0022] 🚀 initiate: ensure offline volume expansion is successful
INFO[0059] ✅  completed: ensure offline volume expansion is successful
INFO[0059] 🚀 initiate: ensure vm image creation is successful
INFO[0077] ✅  completed: ensure vm image creation is successful
INFO[0077] 🚀 initiate: ensure vm can boot from recently created vmimage
INFO[0113] ✅  completed: ensure vm can boot from recently created vmimage
INFO[0113] 🚀 initiate: trigger VM migration
INFO[0130] ✅  completed: trigger VM migration
INFO[0130] 🚀 initiate: hotplug 2 volumes to existing VM
INFO[0136] ✅  completed: hotplug 2 volumes to existing VM
INFO[0136] cleaning up objects created from validation
-------------------------------------
environmentInfo:
  harvesterVersion: v1.6.0
  nodeCount: 2
  validatorVersion: dev
inputConfiguration:
  imageURL: http://10.115.1.6/iso/opensuse/openSUSE-Leap-15.5.x86_64-NoCloud.qcow2
  namespace: default
  skipCleanup: false
  snapshotClass: longhorn-snapshot
  storageClass: harvester-longhorn
  timeout: 600
  vmConfig:
    cpu: 2
    diskSize: 10Gi
results:
- name: hotplug 2 volumes to existing VM
  status: success
- name: trigger VM migration
  status: success
- name: ensure vm can boot from recently created vmimage
  status: success
- name: ensure vm image creation is successful
  status: success
- name: ensure offline volume expansion is successful
  status: success
- name: ensure volume snapshot can be created successfully
  status: success
- name: ensure volume is created and used successfully
  status: success
----

Commit message:

Address reviewer feedback and add content
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.7/modules/en/pages/storage/storage-validator.adoc, after:

= Storage Validator
:revdate: 2026-01-21
:page-revdate: {revdate}

{harvester-product-name} supports the provisioning of root volumes and data volumes using external container storage interface (CSI) drivers. Once the CSI driver is installed and the {harvester-product-name} cluster is configured, you can use a third-party storage solution to store and manage virtual machine images, store virtual machine disks on volumes provisioned by the CSI driver, and perform other critical storage functions.

The https://github.com/harvester/storage-validator[`storage-validator`] utility performs basic tests that validate a storage solution's compatibility with {harvester-product-name} virtual machine and volume lifecycle operations. It is designed for:

* *Cluster administrators*: Verify that your storage solution is correctly configured and optimized for {harvester-product-name}.
+
Storage vendors can validate their solutions with {harvester-product-name} to ensure greater interoperability. You can find information about enterprise-grade storage solutions that are certified to be compatible with {harvester-product-name} in the {rancher-product-name-tm} documentation, which is accessible through the https://scc.suse.com/home[SUSE Customer Center].

* *Third-party storage partners*: Obtain the https://www.suse.com/product-certification/suse-certified/virtualization-certification[SUSE Certified Storage for Virtualization] certification by validating your storage solution with {harvester-product-name}'s reference architecture. To complete the certification requirements, you can run this utility on the https://www.suse.com/suse-harvester/support-matrix/all-supported-versions[latest stable release] and submit the results to SUSE.
+
[NOTE]
====
Tests performed by the utility will be extended in future releases to meet the requirements of the https://www.suse.com/product-certification/suse-certified/data-protection-for-virtualization-certification[SUSE Certified Data Protection for Virtualization] certification.
====

`storage-validator` tests the following operations:

* Volume creation and usage
* Volume snapshot creation
* Offline volume expansion
* Virtual machine image creation using the specified StorageClass
* Virtual machine booting from the created image
* Virtual machine live migration
* Hotplugging of two volumes to a virtual machine

== Prerequisites

* {harvester-product-name} cluster with xref:introduction/deploy-ha-cluster.adoc[three or more nodes] running *v1.6.1* or a https://www.suse.com/suse-harvester/support-matrix/all-supported-versions[later Prime version] (x.y.1)

* xref:storage/csidriver.adoc[Third-party CSI driver]

* HTTP endpoint serving cloud images, which are used for virtual machine provisioning tests

== Configuration file

To use `storage-validator`, create a configuration file named `config.yml` that includes the relevant fields. The utility uses the values in this configuration file when performing the validation tests.

[NOTE]
====
If you only specify the cloud image URL, `storage-validator` uses the default values for the other fields, including the cluster's default StorageClass.
====

|===
| Field | Description | Default Value | Required

| `namespace`
| Namespace to run tests in
| `default`
| No

| `imageURL`
| URL of a cloud image
| No default value
| Yes

| `storageClass`
| xref:storage/storageclass.adoc[StorageClass] to be used for volume creation
| Cluster's default StorageClass
| No

| `snapshotClass`
| VolumeSnapshotClass to be used for snapshot operations
| VolumeSnapshotClass that matches the StorageClass
| No

| `vmConfig.cpu`
| Cores allocated to the virtual machine
| `2`
| No

| `vmConfig.memory`
| Memory allocated to the virtual machine
| `2Gi`
| No

| `vmConfig.diskSize`
| Size of the virtual machine's boot disk
| `10Gi`
| No

| `skipCleanup`
| Option to skip cleanup of resources after validation tests are completed (useful for debugging failures)
| `false`
| No

| `timeout`
| Number of seconds the utility waits before terminating the validation run
| `600`
| No
|===

[NOTE]
====
Snapshot creation requires that the StorageClass and VolumeSnapshotClass use the same provisioner (CSI driver). For example, if the StorageClass uses `lvm.driver.harvesterhci.io`, the VolumeSnapshotClass must also use `lvm.driver.harvesterhci.io`.
====

Example of `config.yml` content:

[,yaml]
----
namespace: default 
imageURL: "https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/Cloud:/Images:/Leap_15.6/images/openSUSE-Leap-15.6.x86_64-NoCloud.qcow2"
storageClass: lvm
snapshotClass: lvm-snapshot
vmConfig:
  cpu: 2
  memory: 2Gi
  diskSize: 10Gi
skipCleanup: false
timeout: 600
----

== Running the utility

You can download the `storage-validator` executable file from the https://github.com/harvester/storage-validator/releases[Releases] page.

The utility accepts the following flags:

[,shell]
----
storage-validator -h
Usage of /tmp/storage-validator:
  -config string
    	Path to config file (default "config.yaml")
  -debug
    	Debug mode
  -kubeconfig string
    	Paths to a kubeconfig. Only required if out-of-cluster.
----

Example of output:

[,shell]
----
storage-validator -config ./sample/config.yaml
INFO[0000] 🚀 initiate: preflight checks
INFO[0003] ✅  completed: preflight checks
INFO[0007] 🚀 initiate: ensure volume is created and used successfully
INFO[0015] ✅  completed: ensure volume is created and used successfully
INFO[0015] 🚀 initiate: ensure volume snapshot can be created successfully
INFO[0022] ✅  completed: ensure volume snapshot can be created successfully
INFO[0022] 🚀 initiate: ensure offline volume expansion is successful
INFO[0059] ✅  completed: ensure offline volume expansion is successful
INFO[0059] 🚀 initiate: ensure vm image creation is successful
INFO[0077] ✅  completed: ensure vm image creation is successful
INFO[0077] 🚀 initiate: ensure vm can boot from recently created vmimage
INFO[0113] ✅  completed: ensure vm can boot from recently created vmimage
INFO[0113] 🚀 initiate: trigger VM migration
INFO[0130] ✅  completed: trigger VM migration
INFO[0130] 🚀 initiate: hotplug 2 volumes to existing VM
INFO[0136] ✅  completed: hotplug 2 volumes to existing VM
INFO[0136] cleaning up objects created from validation
-------------------------------------
environmentInfo:
  harvesterVersion: v1.6.0
  nodeCount: 2
  validatorVersion: dev
inputConfiguration:
  imageURL: http://10.115.1.6/iso/opensuse/openSUSE-Leap-15.5.x86_64-NoCloud.qcow2
  namespace: default
  skipCleanup: false
  snapshotClass: longhorn-snapshot
  storageClass: harvester-longhorn
  timeout: 600
  vmConfig:
    cpu: 2
    diskSize: 10Gi
results:
- name: hotplug 2 volumes to existing VM
  status: success
- name: trigger VM migration
  status: success
- name: ensure vm can boot from recently created vmimage
  status: success
- name: ensure vm image creation is successful
  status: success
- name: ensure offline volume expansion is successful
  status: success
- name: ensure volume snapshot can be created successfully
  status: success
- name: ensure volume is created and used successfully
  status: success
----
