versions/v1.6/modules/en/pages/upgrades/v1-3-2-to-v1-4-0.adoc, before:

= Upgrade from v1.3.2 to v1.4.0

== General information

An *Upgrade* button appears on the *Dashboard* screen whenever a new {harvester-product-name} version that you can upgrade to becomes available. For more information, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_start_an_upgrade[Start an upgrade].

For air-gapped environments, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_prepare_an_air_gapped_upgrade[Prepare an air-gapped upgrade].

=== Prevent corruption of virtual machine images during upgrades

[CAUTION]
====
Before starting the upgrade, ensure that the `BackingImage` CRD is updated to the https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/blob/v1.7.2/deploy/longhorn.yaml#L486-L690[{longhorn-product-name} *v1.7.2* version].

Skipping the CRD update may lead to backing image corruption, as described in https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/10644[issue #10644].
====

Perform the following steps before starting the upgrade.

. Patch the *{harvester-product-name} ManagedChart object* to avoid related errors and warnings.
+
[,shell]
----
kubectl patch managedchart harvester \
-n fleet-local \
--type='json' \
-p='[
  {
    "op":"add",
    "path":"/spec/diff/comparePatches/-",
    "value": {
      "apiVersion":"apiextensions.k8s.io/v1",
      "jsonPointers":["/spec","/metadata/annotations", "/metadata/labels", "/status"],
      "kind":"CustomResourceDefinition",
      "name":"backingimages.longhorn.io"
    }
  }
]'
----

. Apply the *{longhorn-product-name} v1.7.2* https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/blob/v1.7.2/deploy/longhorn.yaml#L486-L690[`BackingImage` CRD].
+
[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1
kind: CustomResourceDefinition
metadata:
  annotations:
    controller-gen.kubebuilder.io/version: v0.15.0
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: longhorn
    app.kubernetes.io/instance: longhorn
    app.kubernetes.io/version: v1.7.2
    longhorn-manager: ""
  name: backingimages.longhorn.io
spec:
  conversion:
    strategy: Webhook
    webhook:
      clientConfig:
        service:
          name: longhorn-conversion-webhook
          namespace: longhorn-system
          path: /v1/webhook/conversion
          port: 9501
      conversionReviewVersions:
      - v1beta2
      - v1beta1
  group: longhorn.io
  names:
    kind: BackingImage
    listKind: BackingImageList
    plural: backingimages
    shortNames:
    - lhbi
    singular: backingimage
  scope: Namespaced
  versions:
  - additionalPrinterColumns:
    - description: The backing image name
      jsonPath: .spec.image
      name: Image
      type: string
    - jsonPath: .metadata.creationTimestamp
      name: Age
      type: date
    name: v1beta1
    schema:
      openAPIV3Schema:
        description: BackingImage is where Longhorn stores backing image object.
        properties:
          apiVersion:
            description: |-
              APIVersion defines the versioned schema of this representation of an object.
              Servers should convert recognized schemas to the latest internal value, and
              may reject unrecognized values.
              More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#resources
            type: string
          kind:
            description: |-
              Kind is a string value representing the REST resource this object represents.
              Servers may infer this from the endpoint the client submits requests to.
              Cannot be updated.
              In CamelCase.
              More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#types-kinds
            type: string
          metadata:
            type: object
          spec:
            x-kubernetes-preserve-unknown-fields: true
          status:
            x-kubernetes-preserve-unknown-fields: true
        type: object
    served: true
    storage: false
    subresources:
      status: {}
  - additionalPrinterColumns:
    - description: The system generated UUID
      jsonPath: .status.uuid
      name: UUID
      type: string
    - description: The source of the backing image file data
      jsonPath: .spec.sourceType
      name: SourceType
      type: string
    - description: The backing image file size in each disk
      jsonPath: .status.size
      name: Size
      type: string
    - description: The virtual size of the image (may be larger than file size)
      jsonPath: .status.virtualSize
      name: VirtualSize
      type: string
    - jsonPath: .metadata.creationTimestamp
      name: Age
      type: date
    name: v1beta2
    schema:
      openAPIV3Schema:
        description: BackingImage is where Longhorn stores backing image object.
        properties:
          apiVersion:
            description: |-
              APIVersion defines the versioned schema of this representation of an object.
              Servers should convert recognized schemas to the latest internal value, and
              may reject unrecognized values.
              More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#resources
            type: string
          kind:
            description: |-
              Kind is a string value representing the REST resource this object represents.
              Servers may infer this from the endpoint the client submits requests to.
              Cannot be updated.
              In CamelCase.
              More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#types-kinds
            type: string
          metadata:
            type: object
          spec:
            description: BackingImageSpec defines the desired state of the Longhorn
              backing image
            properties:
              checksum:
                type: string
              diskFileSpecMap:
                additionalProperties:
                  properties:
                    evictionRequested:
                      type: boolean
                  type: object
                type: object
              diskSelector:
                items:
                  type: string
                type: array
              disks:
                additionalProperties:
                  type: string
                description: Deprecated. We are now using DiskFileSpecMap to assign
                  different spec to the file on different disks.
                type: object
              minNumberOfCopies:
                type: integer
              nodeSelector:
                items:
                  type: string
                type: array
              secret:
                type: string
              secretNamespace:
                type: string
              sourceParameters:
                additionalProperties:
                  type: string
                type: object
              sourceType:
                enum:
                - download
                - upload
                - export-from-volume
                - restore
                - clone
                type: string
            type: object
          status:
            description: BackingImageStatus defines the observed state of the Longhorn
              backing image status
            properties:
              checksum:
                type: string
              diskFileStatusMap:
                additionalProperties:
                  properties:
                    lastStateTransitionTime:
                      type: string
                    message:
                      type: string
                    progress:
                      type: integer
                    state:
                      type: string
                  type: object
                nullable: true
                type: object
              diskLastRefAtMap:
                additionalProperties:
                  type: string
                nullable: true
                type: object
              ownerID:
                type: string
              size:
                format: int64
                type: integer
              uuid:
                type: string
              virtualSize:
                description: Virtual size of image, which may be larger than physical
                  size. Will be zero until known (e.g. while a backing image is uploading)
                format: int64
                type: integer
            type: object
        type: object
    served: true
    storage: true
    subresources:
      status: {}
----

== Known Issues

=== 1. The upgrade process becomes stuck in the "Pre-draining" state.

A virtual machine with a container disk cannot be migrated because of a limitation of the live migration feature. This causes the upgrade process to become stuck in the "Pre-draining" state.

[TIP]
====
Manually stop the virtual machines to continue the upgrade process.
====

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7005[#7005]

=== 2. The upgrade process becomes stuck on waiting for the Harvester bundle to become ready.

This issue is caused by a race condition when the Fleet agent (`fleet-agent`) is redeployed. The following error messages indicate that the issue exists.

[,shell]
----
> kubectl get bundles -n fleet-local
NAME                                          BUNDLEDEPLOYMENTS-READY   STATUS
mcc-harvester                                 0/1                       ErrApplied(1) [Cluster fleet-local/local: encountered 2 deletion errors. First is: admission webhook "validator.harvesterhci.io" denied the request: Internal error occurred: no route match found for DELETE /v1, Kind=Secret harvester-system/sh.helm.release.v1.harvester.v2]
mcc-harvester-crd                             0/1                       ErrApplied(1) [Cluster fleet-local/local: admission webhook "validator.harvesterhci.io" denied the request: Internal error occurred: no route match found for DELETE /v1, Kind=Secret harvester-system/sh.helm.release.v1.harvester-crd.v1]
----

You can run the following script to fix the issue.

[,shell]
----
#!/bin/bash

patch_fleet_bundle() {
  local bundleName=$1
  local generation=$(kubectl get -n fleet-local bundle ${bundleName} -o jsonpath='{.spec.forceSyncGeneration}')
  local new_generation=$((generation+1))
  patch_manifest="$(mktemp)"
  cat > "$patch_manifest" <<EOF
{
  "spec": {
    "forceSyncGeneration": $new_generation
  }
}
EOF
  echo "patch bundle to new generation: $new_generation"
  kubectl patch -n fleet-local bundle ${bundleName}  --type=merge --patch-file $patch_manifest
  rm -f $patch_manifest
}

echo "removing harvester validating webhook"
kubectl delete validatingwebhookconfiguration harvester-validator

for bundle in mcc-harvester-crd mcc-harvester
do
  patch_fleet_bundle ${bundle}
done

echo "removing longhorn services"
kubectl delete svc longhorn-engine-manager -n longhorn-system --ignore-not-found=true
kubectl delete svc longhorn-replica-manager -n longhorn-system --ignore-not-found=true
----

=== 3. Upgrade Stuck on Waiting for Fleet

When upgrading from v1.3.2 to v1.4.0, the upgrade process may become stuck on waiting for Fleet to become ready. This issue is caused by a race condition when Rancher is redeployed.

Check the Harvester logs and Fleet history for the following indicators:

* The manifest pod is stuck in the `deployed` status.
* The upgrade is pending with a chart version that has been deployed.

Example:

[,shell]
----
> kubectl logs -n harvester-system -l harvesterhci.io/upgradeComponent=manifest
wait helm release cattle-fleet-system fleet fleet-104.0.2+up0.10.2 0.10.2 deployed

> helm history -n cattle-fleet-system fleet
REVISION	UPDATED                 	STATUS         	CHART                	APP VERSION	DESCRIPTION
26      	Tue Dec 10 03:09:13 2024	superseded     	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
27      	Sun Dec 15 09:26:54 2024	superseded     	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
28      	Sun Dec 15 09:27:03 2024	superseded     	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
29      	Mon Dec 16 05:57:03 2024	deployed       	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
30      	Mon Dec 16 05:57:13 2024	pending-upgrade	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Preparing upgrade
----

You can run the following command to fix the issue.

[,shell]
----
helm rollback fleet -n cattle-fleet-system <last-deployed-revision>
----

=== 4. Upgrade Restarts Unexpectedly After Clicking "Dismiss it" Button

When you use Rancher to upgrade {harvester-product-name}, the Rancher UI displays a dialog with a button labeled "Dismiss it". Clicking this button may result in the following issues:

* The `status` section of the `harvesterhci.io/v1beta1/upgrade` CR is cleared, causing the loss of all important information about the upgrade.
* The upgrade process restarts unexpectedly.

This issue affects Rancher v2.10.x, which uses v1.0.2, v1.0.3, and v1.0.4 of the xref:../integrations/rancher/harvester-ui-extension.adoc#_support_matrix[Harvester UI Extension]. All {harvester-product-name} UI versions are not affected. The issue is fixed in Harvester UI Extension v1.0.5 and v1.5.0.

To avoid this issue, perform either of the following actions:

* Use the {harvester-product-name} UI for upgrades. Clicking the "Dismiss it" button on the {harvester-product-name} UI does not result in unexpected behavior.
* Instead of clicking the button on the Rancher UI, run the following command against the cluster:
+
[,shell]
----
kubectl -n harvester-system label upgrades -l harvesterhci.io/latestUpgrade=true harvesterhci.io/read-message=true
----

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7791[#7791]

Commit message:

Add and edit text per PR 813 (Longhorn issue #11158)
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.6/modules/en/pages/upgrades/v1-3-2-to-v1-4-0.adoc, after:

= Upgrade from v1.3.2 to v1.4.0

== General information

An *Upgrade* button appears on the *Dashboard* screen whenever a new {harvester-product-name} version that you can upgrade to becomes available. For more information, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_start_an_upgrade[Start an upgrade].

For air-gapped environments, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_prepare_an_air_gapped_upgrade[Prepare an air-gapped upgrade].

=== Prevent corruption of virtual machine images during upgrades

[CAUTION]
====
Before starting the upgrade, ensure that the `BackingImage` CRD is updated to the https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/blob/v1.7.2/deploy/longhorn.yaml#L486-L690[{longhorn-product-name} *v1.7.2* version].

Skipping the CRD update may lead to backing image corruption, as described in https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/10644[issue #10644].
====

Perform the following steps before starting the upgrade.

. Patch the *{harvester-product-name} ManagedChart object* to avoid related errors and warnings.
+
[,shell]
----
kubectl patch managedchart harvester \
-n fleet-local \
--type='json' \
-p='[
  {
    "op":"add",
    "path":"/spec/diff/comparePatches/-",
    "value": {
      "apiVersion":"apiextensions.k8s.io/v1",
      "jsonPointers":["/spec","/metadata/annotations", "/metadata/labels", "/status"],
      "kind":"CustomResourceDefinition",
      "name":"backingimages.longhorn.io"
    }
  }
]'
----

. Apply the *{longhorn-product-name} v1.7.2* https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/blob/v1.7.2/deploy/longhorn.yaml#L486-L690[`BackingImage` CRD].
+
[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1
kind: CustomResourceDefinition
metadata:
  annotations:
    controller-gen.kubebuilder.io/version: v0.15.0
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: longhorn
    app.kubernetes.io/instance: longhorn
    app.kubernetes.io/version: v1.7.2
    longhorn-manager: ""
  name: backingimages.longhorn.io
spec:
  conversion:
    strategy: Webhook
    webhook:
      clientConfig:
        service:
          name: longhorn-conversion-webhook
          namespace: longhorn-system
          path: /v1/webhook/conversion
          port: 9501
      conversionReviewVersions:
      - v1beta2
      - v1beta1
  group: longhorn.io
  names:
    kind: BackingImage
    listKind: BackingImageList
    plural: backingimages
    shortNames:
    - lhbi
    singular: backingimage
  scope: Namespaced
  versions:
  - additionalPrinterColumns:
    - description: The backing image name
      jsonPath: .spec.image
      name: Image
      type: string
    - jsonPath: .metadata.creationTimestamp
      name: Age
      type: date
    name: v1beta1
    schema:
      openAPIV3Schema:
        description: BackingImage is where Longhorn stores backing image object.
        properties:
          apiVersion:
            description: |-
              APIVersion defines the versioned schema of this representation of an object.
              Servers should convert recognized schemas to the latest internal value, and
              may reject unrecognized values.
              More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#resources
            type: string
          kind:
            description: |-
              Kind is a string value representing the REST resource this object represents.
              Servers may infer this from the endpoint the client submits requests to.
              Cannot be updated.
              In CamelCase.
              More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#types-kinds
            type: string
          metadata:
            type: object
          spec:
            x-kubernetes-preserve-unknown-fields: true
          status:
            x-kubernetes-preserve-unknown-fields: true
        type: object
    served: true
    storage: false
    subresources:
      status: {}
  - additionalPrinterColumns:
    - description: The system generated UUID
      jsonPath: .status.uuid
      name: UUID
      type: string
    - description: The source of the backing image file data
      jsonPath: .spec.sourceType
      name: SourceType
      type: string
    - description: The backing image file size in each disk
      jsonPath: .status.size
      name: Size
      type: string
    - description: The virtual size of the image (may be larger than file size)
      jsonPath: .status.virtualSize
      name: VirtualSize
      type: string
    - jsonPath: .metadata.creationTimestamp
      name: Age
      type: date
    name: v1beta2
    schema:
      openAPIV3Schema:
        description: BackingImage is where Longhorn stores backing image object.
        properties:
          apiVersion:
            description: |-
              APIVersion defines the versioned schema of this representation of an object.
              Servers should convert recognized schemas to the latest internal value, and
              may reject unrecognized values.
              More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#resources
            type: string
          kind:
            description: |-
              Kind is a string value representing the REST resource this object represents.
              Servers may infer this from the endpoint the client submits requests to.
              Cannot be updated.
              In CamelCase.
              More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#types-kinds
            type: string
          metadata:
            type: object
          spec:
            description: BackingImageSpec defines the desired state of the Longhorn
              backing image
            properties:
              checksum:
                type: string
              diskFileSpecMap:
                additionalProperties:
                  properties:
                    evictionRequested:
                      type: boolean
                  type: object
                type: object
              diskSelector:
                items:
                  type: string
                type: array
              disks:
                additionalProperties:
                  type: string
                description: Deprecated. We are now using DiskFileSpecMap to assign
                  different spec to the file on different disks.
                type: object
              minNumberOfCopies:
                type: integer
              nodeSelector:
                items:
                  type: string
                type: array
              secret:
                type: string
              secretNamespace:
                type: string
              sourceParameters:
                additionalProperties:
                  type: string
                type: object
              sourceType:
                enum:
                - download
                - upload
                - export-from-volume
                - restore
                - clone
                type: string
            type: object
          status:
            description: BackingImageStatus defines the observed state of the Longhorn
              backing image status
            properties:
              checksum:
                type: string
              diskFileStatusMap:
                additionalProperties:
                  properties:
                    lastStateTransitionTime:
                      type: string
                    message:
                      type: string
                    progress:
                      type: integer
                    state:
                      type: string
                  type: object
                nullable: true
                type: object
              diskLastRefAtMap:
                additionalProperties:
                  type: string
                nullable: true
                type: object
              ownerID:
                type: string
              size:
                format: int64
                type: integer
              uuid:
                type: string
              virtualSize:
                description: Virtual size of image, which may be larger than physical
                  size. Will be zero until known (e.g. while a backing image is uploading)
                format: int64
                type: integer
            type: object
        type: object
    served: true
    storage: true
    subresources:
      status: {}
----

== Known Issues

=== 1. Upgrade stuck in the "Pre-draining" state

A virtual machine with a container disk cannot be migrated because of a limitation of the live migration feature. This causes the upgrade process to become stuck in the "Pre-draining" state.

[TIP]
====
Manually stop the virtual machines to continue the upgrade process.
====

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7005[#7005]

=== 2. Upgrade stuck on waiting for bundle

This issue is caused by a race condition when the Fleet agent (`fleet-agent`) is redeployed. The following error messages indicate that the issue exists.

[,shell]
----
> kubectl get bundles -n fleet-local
NAME                                          BUNDLEDEPLOYMENTS-READY   STATUS
mcc-harvester                                 0/1                       ErrApplied(1) [Cluster fleet-local/local: encountered 2 deletion errors. First is: admission webhook "validator.harvesterhci.io" denied the request: Internal error occurred: no route match found for DELETE /v1, Kind=Secret harvester-system/sh.helm.release.v1.harvester.v2]
mcc-harvester-crd                             0/1                       ErrApplied(1) [Cluster fleet-local/local: admission webhook "validator.harvesterhci.io" denied the request: Internal error occurred: no route match found for DELETE /v1, Kind=Secret harvester-system/sh.helm.release.v1.harvester-crd.v1]
----

You can run the following script to fix the issue.

[,shell]
----
#!/bin/bash

patch_fleet_bundle() {
  local bundleName=$1
  local generation=$(kubectl get -n fleet-local bundle ${bundleName} -o jsonpath='{.spec.forceSyncGeneration}')
  local new_generation=$((generation+1))
  patch_manifest="$(mktemp)"
  cat > "$patch_manifest" <<EOF
{
  "spec": {
    "forceSyncGeneration": $new_generation
  }
}
EOF
  echo "patch bundle to new generation: $new_generation"
  kubectl patch -n fleet-local bundle ${bundleName}  --type=merge --patch-file $patch_manifest
  rm -f $patch_manifest
}

echo "removing harvester validating webhook"
kubectl delete validatingwebhookconfiguration harvester-validator

for bundle in mcc-harvester-crd mcc-harvester
do
  patch_fleet_bundle ${bundle}
done

echo "removing longhorn services"
kubectl delete svc longhorn-engine-manager -n longhorn-system --ignore-not-found=true
kubectl delete svc longhorn-replica-manager -n longhorn-system --ignore-not-found=true
----

=== 3. Upgrade stuck on waiting for Fleet

When upgrading from v1.3.2 to v1.4.0, the upgrade process may become stuck on waiting for Fleet to become ready. This issue is caused by a race condition when {rancher-product-name} is redeployed.

Check the Harvester logs and Fleet history for the following indicators:

* The manifest pod is stuck in the `deployed` status.
* The upgrade is pending with a chart version that has been deployed.

Example:

[,shell]
----
> kubectl logs -n harvester-system -l harvesterhci.io/upgradeComponent=manifest
wait helm release cattle-fleet-system fleet fleet-104.0.2+up0.10.2 0.10.2 deployed

> helm history -n cattle-fleet-system fleet
REVISION	UPDATED                 	STATUS         	CHART                	APP VERSION	DESCRIPTION
26      	Tue Dec 10 03:09:13 2024	superseded     	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
27      	Sun Dec 15 09:26:54 2024	superseded     	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
28      	Sun Dec 15 09:27:03 2024	superseded     	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
29      	Mon Dec 16 05:57:03 2024	deployed       	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
30      	Mon Dec 16 05:57:13 2024	pending-upgrade	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Preparing upgrade
----

You can run the following command to fix the issue.

[,shell]
----
helm rollback fleet -n cattle-fleet-system <last-deployed-revision>
----

=== 4. Upgrade restarts unexpectedly after the "Dismiss it" button is clicked

When you use {rancher-short-name} to upgrade {harvester-product-name}, the {rancher-short-name} UI displays a dialog with a button labeled "Dismiss it". Clicking this button may result in the following issues:

* The `status` section of the `harvesterhci.io/v1beta1/upgrade` CR is cleared, causing the loss of all important information about the upgrade.
* The upgrade process restarts unexpectedly.

This issue affects {rancher-short-name} v2.10.x, which uses v1.0.2, v1.0.3, and v1.0.4 of the xref:../integrations/rancher/harvester-ui-extension.adoc#_support_matrix[Harvester UI Extension]. All {harvester-product-name} UI versions are not affected. The issue is fixed in Harvester UI Extension v1.0.5 and v1.5.0.

To avoid this issue, perform either of the following actions:

* Use the {harvester-product-name} UI for upgrades. Clicking the "Dismiss it" button on the {harvester-product-name} UI does not result in unexpected behavior.
* Instead of clicking the button on the {rancher-short-name} UI, run the following command against the cluster:
+
[,shell]
----
kubectl -n harvester-system label upgrades -l harvesterhci.io/latestUpgrade=true harvesterhci.io/read-message=true
----

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7791[#7791]

=== 5. Virtual machines that use migratable RWX volumes restart unexpectedly

Virtual machines that use migratable xref:integrations/rancher/csi-driver.adoc#_rwx_volumes_support[RWX volumes] restart unexpectedly when the CSI plugin pods are restarted. This issue affects {harvester-product-name} v1.4.x, v1.5.0, and v1.5.1.

The workaround is to disable the setting https://documentation.suse.com/cloudnative/storage/1.8/en/longhorn-system/settings.html#_automatically_delete_workload_pod_when_the_volume_is_detached_unexpectedly[Automatically Delete Workload Pod When The Volume Is Detached Unexpectedly] on the {longhorn-product-name} UI before starting the upgrade. You must enable the setting again once the upgrade is completed.

The issue will be fixed in {longhorn-product-name} v1.8.3, v1.9.1, and later versions. {harvester-product-name} v1.6.0 will include {longhorn-product-name} v1.9.1. 

Related issues: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/8534[#8534] and https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/11158[#11158]
