versions/v1.6/modules/en/pages/upgrades/v1-5-x-to-v1-6-0.adoc, before:

= Upgrade from v1.5.x to v1.6.0
:revdate: 2025-11-11
:page-revdate: {revdate}

== General information

An *Upgrade* button appears on the *Dashboard* screen whenever a new {harvester-product-name} version that you can upgrade to becomes available. For more information, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_start_an_upgrade[Start an upgrade].

You can directly upgrade from v1.5.x to v1.6.0 because {harvester-product-name} allows a maximum of one minor version upgrade for underlying components. v1.5.0, v1.5.1, and v1.5.2 use the same minor version of {rke2-short-name} (v1.32), while v1.6.0 uses the next minor version (v1.33).

For information about upgrading {harvester-product-name} in air-gapped environments, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_prepare_an_air_gapped_upgrade[Prepare an air-gapped upgrade].

=== Update the Harvester UI Extension on {rancher-product-name} v2.12.0

You must use **v1.6.0** of the Harvester UI Extension to import {harvester-product-name} v1.6.0 clusters on {rancher-short-name} v2.12.0.

. On the {rancher-short-name} UI, go to *local -> Apps -> Repositories*.

. Locate the repository named *harvester*, and then select *⋮ -> Refresh*.

. Go to the *Extensions* screen.

. Locate the extension named *Harvester*, and then click *Update*.

. Select version *1.6.0*, and then click *Update*.

. Allow some time for the extension to be updated, and then refresh the screen.

== Known issues

=== Upgrade is stuck in the "Pre-drained" state

In certain situations, the Instance Manager might fail to clean up an engine instance, even after the state of the engine CR has changed to "Stopped". The upgrade process becomes stuck in the "Pre-drained" state because the instance-manager pod cannot be deleted while the corresponding PodDisruptionBudget (PDB) still exists.

The workaround is to delete the instance-manager PDB after ensuring that all volumes are healthy.

Related issues: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/8977[#8977] and https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/11605[#11605]

=== Guest cluster is stuck in the "Updating" state

An {rke2-short-name} guest cluster may become stuck in the "Updating" state after {harvester-product-name} is upgraded. The following error message is displayed on the {harvester-product-name} UI:

[,shell]
----
Configuring etcd node(s) rke2-pool1-xdvfc-qf4vb: Node condition MemoryPressure is Unknown. Node condition DiskPressure is Unknown. Node condition PIDPressure is Unknown. Node condition Ready is Unknown, waiting for probes: calico, etcd, kube-apiserver, kube-controller-manager
----

The issue occurs when the guest node's IP address changes after the upgrade, causing etcd to malfunction. It is likely that the underlying virtual machine was rebooted several times and received a new IP address from the DHCP server.

To address the issue, perform the following steps:

. On the {rancher-short-name} UI, delete the error-causing node from the guest cluster.
. On the {harvester-product-name} UI, check the status of the underlying virtual machine.
. If necessary, restart the virtual machine.

The virtual machine is removed, and the guest cluster attempts to create a new node. Once the node is created, the status of the guest cluster changes to "Active".

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/8950[#8950]

=== Stopped virtual machine is stuck in the "Starting" state

A {longhorn-product-name} volume can flap between the "Detaching" and "Detached" states after a live migration. Because the volume is not ready, the associated virtual machine is unable to fully start.

The workaround is to clear the volume's `status.currentMigrationNodeID` using following command:

```
kubectl patch -n longhorn-system volume <volume> \
  --type=merge \
  --subresource status \
  -p '{"status":{"currentMigrationNodeID":""}}'
```

Related issues: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/8949[#8949] and https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/11479[#11479]

=== Nodes stuck in “Waiting Reboot” state due to network setup error

Nodes may become stuck in the `Waiting Reboot` state during an upgrade if the following criteria are met:

* {harvester-product-name} v1.2.1 or an earlier version was initially installed, and the nodes were upgraded incrementally.
* The `vlan_id` field in the `install.management_interface` setting is either set to `1` or is empty.

The issue occurs because of a network setup error, as indicated by the message `yaml: line did not find expected key` in the node logs.

During the upgrade, the `/oem/90_custom.yaml` file is updated to reflect changes in the behavior of v1.5.x, which added VLANs 2–4094 to `mgmt-br` and `mgmt-bo`. Two scripts in that file (`/etc/wicked/scripts/setup_bond.sh` and `/etc/wicked/scripts/setup_bridge.sh`) may be truncated by a `sed` operation if they use the format generated by `gopkg.in/yaml.v2`, which was used in the installer of {harvester-product-name} versions earlier than 1.2.2. The `sed` operation removes the line `bridge vlan add vid 2-4094 dev $INTERFACE`. This truncation issue does not affect scripts that use the format generated by `gopkg.in/yaml.v3`

The following are the contents of the `/etc/wicked/scripts/setup_bond.sh` script in the `/oem/90_custom.yaml` file:

* Generated from `gopkg.in/yaml.v2`:
+
[,shell]
----
"#!/bin/sh\n\nACTION=$1\nINTERFACE=$2\n\ncase $ACTION in\n\tpost-up)\n\t\t#
inherit MAC address\n\t\tip link set dev mgmt-br address $(ip -json link show
dev $INTERFACE | jq -j '.[0][\"address\"]')\n\n\t\t# accept all vlan, PVID=1
by default\n\t\tbridge vlan add vid 2-4094 dev $INTERFACE\n\t\t;;\n\nesac\n"
```
----

* Generated from `gopkg.in/yaml.v3`:
+
[,shell]
----
#!/bin/sh
ACTION=$1
INTERFACE=$2
case $ACTION in
        post-up)
                # inherit MAC address
                ip link set dev mgmt-br address $(ip -json link show dev $INTERFACE | jq -j '.[0]["address"]')
                #accept all vlan,PVID=1 by default
                bridge vlan add vid 2-4094 dev $INTERFACE
                ;;
esac
----

The following are the contents of the `/etc/wicked/scripts/setup_bridge.sh` script in the `/oem/90_custom.yaml` file:

* Generated from `gopkg.in/yaml.v2`:
+
[,shell]
----
"#!/bin/sh\n\nACTION=$1\nINTERFACE=$2\n\ncase $ACTION in\n\tpre-up)\n\t\t#
enable vlan-aware\n\t\tip link set dev $INTERFACE type bridge vlan_filtering 1\n\t\t\t;;\n\n\tpost-up)\n\t\t#
accept all vlan, PVID=1 by default\n\t\tbridge vlan add vid 2-4094 dev $INTERFACE
self\n\t\tbridge vlan add vid 2-4094 dev mgmt-bo\n\t\t;;\n\nesac\n"
----

* Generated from `gopkg.in/yaml.v3`:
+
[,shell]
----
#!/bin/sh
ACTION=$1
INTERFACE=$2
case $ACTION in
        pre-up)
               #enable vlan-aware
               ip link set $INTERFACE type bridge vlan_filtering 1
               ;;
        post-up)
                #accept all vlan, PVID=1 by default
                bridge vlan add vid 2-4094 dev $INTERFACE self
                bridge vlan add vid 2-4094 dev mgmt-bo
                ;;
esac
----

The workaround is to replace the outdated script contents. Use the scripts in the `/oem/90_custom.yaml` file generated from `gopkg.in/yaml.v3`. Once the scripts are updated, the upgrade is resumed.

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/9033[#9033]

Commit message:

Add text from PR 895 (Upgrading to v1.5.2 - missing info)
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.6/modules/en/pages/upgrades/v1-5-x-to-v1-6-0.adoc, after:

= Upgrade from v1.5.x to v1.6.0
:revdate: 2025-11-11
:page-revdate: {revdate}

== General information

An *Upgrade* button appears on the *Dashboard* screen whenever a new {harvester-product-name} version that you can upgrade to becomes available. For more information, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_start_an_upgrade[Start an upgrade].

Clusters running v1.5.0 and v1.5.1 can upgrade to v1.6.x directly because Harvester allows a maximum of one minor version upgrade for underlying components. v1.5.0, v1.5.1, and v1.5.2 use the same minor version of {rke2-short-name} (v1.32), while v1.6.0 uses the next minor version (v1.33). For more information, see xref:upgrades/upgrades.adoc#_upgrade_paths)[Upgrade paths].

[NOTE]
====
Only customers affected by issues listed in the Bug Fixes section of the https://github.com/harvester/harvester/releases/tag/v1.5.2[release notes] must install v1.5.2.
====

For information about upgrading {harvester-product-name} in air-gapped environments, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_prepare_an_air_gapped_upgrade[Prepare an air-gapped upgrade].

=== Update the Harvester UI Extension on {rancher-product-name} v2.12.0

You must use **v1.6.0** of the Harvester UI Extension to import {harvester-product-name} v1.6.0 clusters on {rancher-short-name} v2.12.0.

. On the {rancher-short-name} UI, go to *local -> Apps -> Repositories*.

. Locate the repository named *harvester*, and then select *⋮ -> Refresh*.

. Go to the *Extensions* screen.

. Locate the extension named *Harvester*, and then click *Update*.

. Select version *1.6.0*, and then click *Update*.

. Allow some time for the extension to be updated, and then refresh the screen.

== Known issues

=== Upgrade is stuck in the "Pre-drained" state

In certain situations, the Instance Manager might fail to clean up an engine instance, even after the state of the engine CR has changed to "Stopped". The upgrade process becomes stuck in the "Pre-drained" state because the instance-manager pod cannot be deleted while the corresponding PodDisruptionBudget (PDB) still exists.

The workaround is to delete the instance-manager PDB after ensuring that all volumes are healthy.

Related issues: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/8977[#8977] and https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/11605[#11605]

=== Guest cluster is stuck in the "Updating" state

An {rke2-short-name} guest cluster may become stuck in the "Updating" state after {harvester-product-name} is upgraded. The following error message is displayed on the {harvester-product-name} UI:

[,shell]
----
Configuring etcd node(s) rke2-pool1-xdvfc-qf4vb: Node condition MemoryPressure is Unknown. Node condition DiskPressure is Unknown. Node condition PIDPressure is Unknown. Node condition Ready is Unknown, waiting for probes: calico, etcd, kube-apiserver, kube-controller-manager
----

The issue occurs when the guest node's IP address changes after the upgrade, causing etcd to malfunction. It is likely that the underlying virtual machine was rebooted several times and received a new IP address from the DHCP server.

To address the issue, perform the following steps:

. On the {rancher-short-name} UI, delete the error-causing node from the guest cluster.
. On the {harvester-product-name} UI, check the status of the underlying virtual machine.
. If necessary, restart the virtual machine.

The virtual machine is removed, and the guest cluster attempts to create a new node. Once the node is created, the status of the guest cluster changes to "Active".

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/8950[#8950]

=== Stopped virtual machine is stuck in the "Starting" state

A {longhorn-product-name} volume can flap between the "Detaching" and "Detached" states after a live migration. Because the volume is not ready, the associated virtual machine is unable to fully start.

The workaround is to clear the volume's `status.currentMigrationNodeID` using following command:

```
kubectl patch -n longhorn-system volume <volume> \
  --type=merge \
  --subresource status \
  -p '{"status":{"currentMigrationNodeID":""}}'
```

Related issues: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/8949[#8949] and https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/11479[#11479]

=== Nodes stuck in “Waiting Reboot” state due to network setup error

Nodes may become stuck in the `Waiting Reboot` state during an upgrade if the following criteria are met:

* {harvester-product-name} v1.2.1 or an earlier version was initially installed, and the nodes were upgraded incrementally.
* The `vlan_id` field in the `install.management_interface` setting is either set to `1` or is empty.

The issue occurs because of a network setup error, as indicated by the message `yaml: line did not find expected key` in the node logs.

During the upgrade, the `/oem/90_custom.yaml` file is updated to reflect changes in the behavior of v1.5.x, which added VLANs 2–4094 to `mgmt-br` and `mgmt-bo`. Two scripts in that file (`/etc/wicked/scripts/setup_bond.sh` and `/etc/wicked/scripts/setup_bridge.sh`) may be truncated by a `sed` operation if they use the format generated by `gopkg.in/yaml.v2`, which was used in the installer of {harvester-product-name} versions earlier than 1.2.2. The `sed` operation removes the line `bridge vlan add vid 2-4094 dev $INTERFACE`. This truncation issue does not affect scripts that use the format generated by `gopkg.in/yaml.v3`

The following are the contents of the `/etc/wicked/scripts/setup_bond.sh` script in the `/oem/90_custom.yaml` file:

* Generated from `gopkg.in/yaml.v2`:
+
[,shell]
----
"#!/bin/sh\n\nACTION=$1\nINTERFACE=$2\n\ncase $ACTION in\n\tpost-up)\n\t\t#
inherit MAC address\n\t\tip link set dev mgmt-br address $(ip -json link show
dev $INTERFACE | jq -j '.[0][\"address\"]')\n\n\t\t# accept all vlan, PVID=1
by default\n\t\tbridge vlan add vid 2-4094 dev $INTERFACE\n\t\t;;\n\nesac\n"
```
----

* Generated from `gopkg.in/yaml.v3`:
+
[,shell]
----
#!/bin/sh
ACTION=$1
INTERFACE=$2
case $ACTION in
        post-up)
                # inherit MAC address
                ip link set dev mgmt-br address $(ip -json link show dev $INTERFACE | jq -j '.[0]["address"]')
                #accept all vlan,PVID=1 by default
                bridge vlan add vid 2-4094 dev $INTERFACE
                ;;
esac
----

The following are the contents of the `/etc/wicked/scripts/setup_bridge.sh` script in the `/oem/90_custom.yaml` file:

* Generated from `gopkg.in/yaml.v2`:
+
[,shell]
----
"#!/bin/sh\n\nACTION=$1\nINTERFACE=$2\n\ncase $ACTION in\n\tpre-up)\n\t\t#
enable vlan-aware\n\t\tip link set dev $INTERFACE type bridge vlan_filtering 1\n\t\t\t;;\n\n\tpost-up)\n\t\t#
accept all vlan, PVID=1 by default\n\t\tbridge vlan add vid 2-4094 dev $INTERFACE
self\n\t\tbridge vlan add vid 2-4094 dev mgmt-bo\n\t\t;;\n\nesac\n"
----

* Generated from `gopkg.in/yaml.v3`:
+
[,shell]
----
#!/bin/sh
ACTION=$1
INTERFACE=$2
case $ACTION in
        pre-up)
               #enable vlan-aware
               ip link set $INTERFACE type bridge vlan_filtering 1
               ;;
        post-up)
                #accept all vlan, PVID=1 by default
                bridge vlan add vid 2-4094 dev $INTERFACE self
                bridge vlan add vid 2-4094 dev mgmt-bo
                ;;
esac
----

The workaround is to replace the outdated script contents. Use the scripts in the `/oem/90_custom.yaml` file generated from `gopkg.in/yaml.v3`. Once the scripts are updated, the upgrade is resumed.

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/9033[#9033]
