versions/v1.6/modules/en/pages/add-ons/vm-import-controller.adoc, before:

= VM Import Controller
:revdate: 2025-09-19
:page-revdate: {revdate}

You can import virtual machines from VMware and OpenStack into {harvester-product-name} using the vm-import-controller add-on. The add-on must be enabled before you start importing virtual machines.

image::vm-import-controller/EnableAddon.png[]

By default, vm-import-controller leverages ephemeral storage, which is mounted from /var/lib/kubelet.

During the migration, a large VM's node could run out of space on this mount, resulting in subsequent scheduling failures.

To avoid this, users are advised to enable PVC-backed storage and customize the amount of storage needed. According to the best practice, the PVC size should be twice the size of the largest VM being migrated. This is essential as the PVC is used as scratch space to download the VM, and convert the disks into raw image files.

image::vm-import-controller/ConfigureAddon.png[]

== vm-import-controller

Currently, the following source providers are supported:

* VMware
* OpenStack

== API

The vm-import-controller introduces two CRDs.

=== Sources

Sources allow users to define valid source clusters.

For example:

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: migration.harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
kind: VmwareSource
metadata:
  name: vcsim
  namespace: default
spec:
  endpoint: "https://vscim/sdk"
  dc: "DCO"
  credentials:
    name: vsphere-credentials
    namespace: default
----

The secret contains the credentials for the vCenter endpoint:

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: vsphere-credentials
  namespace: default
stringData:
  "username": "user"
  "password": "password"
----

As part of the reconciliation process, the controller will log into vCenter and verify whether the `dc` specified in the source spec is valid.

Once this check is passed, the source is marked as ready and can be used for VM migrations.

[,shell]
----
$ kubectl get vmwaresource.migration
NAME      STATUS
vcsim   clusterReady
----

For OpenStack-based source clusters, an example definition is as follows:

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: migration.harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
kind: OpenstackSource
metadata:
  name: devstack
  namespace: default
spec:
  endpoint: "https://devstack/identity"
  region: "RegionOne"
  credentials:
    name: devstack-credentials
    namespace: default
----

The secret contains the credentials for the OpenStack endpoint:

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: devstack-credentials
  namespace: default
stringData:
  "username": "user"
  "password": "password"
  "project_name": "admin"
  "domain_name": "default"
  "ca_cert": "pem-encoded-ca-cert"
----

The OpenStack source reconciliation process attempts to list VMs in the project and marks the source as ready.

[,shell]
----
$ kubectl get opestacksource.migration
NAME       STATUS
devstack   clusterReady
----

=== VirtualMachineImport

The VirtualMachineImport CRD provides a way for users to define a source VM and map to the actual source cluster to perform VM export/import.

A sample VirtualMachineImport looks like this:

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: migration.harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
kind: VirtualMachineImport
metadata:
  name: alpine-export-test
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualMachineName: "alpine-export-test"
  folder: "Discovered VM"
  networkMapping:
  - sourceNetwork: "dvSwitch 1"
    destinationNetwork: "default/vlan1"
  - sourceNetwork: "dvSwitch 2"
    destinationNetwork: "default/vlan2"
  skipPreflightChecks: false
  storageClass: "my-storage-class"
  defaultDiskBusType: "scsi"
  sourceCluster:
    name: vcsim
    namespace: default
    kind: VmwareSource
    apiVersion: migration.harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
----

This prompts the controller to export the virtual machine named `alpine-export-test` on the source VMware cluster to be exported, processed, and recreated in the {harvester-product-name} cluster.

The controller checks the configuration before starting the import process, and cancels the import when it detects errors such as unknown xref:storage/storageclass.adoc[StorageClasses] or networks. These checks are enabled by default, but can be disabled by setting `skipPreflightChecks` to `true`.

The duration of the import process depends on the size of the virtual machine. While the import process may take some time, you should see `VirtualMachineImages` created for each disk in the defined virtual machine.

If the source virtual machine is placed in a folder, you can specify the folder name in the optional `folder` field.

The list of items in `networkMapping` will define how the source network interfaces are mapped to the {harvester-product-name} Networks.

If a match is not found, each unmatched network interface is attached to the default `managementNetwork`.

The `storageClass` field specifies the xref:storage/storageclass.adoc[StorageClass] to be used for images and provisioning of persistent volumes during the import process. If no value is specified, {harvester-product-name} uses the default StorageClass.

The `defaultDiskBusType` field allows you to specify the bus type for imported disks. {harvester-product-name} uses this field in the following ways:

* VMware sources: The value is used only if {harvester-product-name} is unable to automatically detect the bus type.
* OpenStack sources: The value is used for all imported disks.

The valid values are `sata`, `scsi`, `usb`, and `virtio`. If you do not specify a value, `virtio` is used by default.

Once the virtual machine has been imported successfully, the object will reflect the status:

[,shell]
----
$ kubectl get virtualmachineimport.migration
NAME                    STATUS
alpine-export-test      virtualMachineRunning
openstack-cirros-test   virtualMachineRunning
----

Similarly, users can define a VirtualMachineImport for an OpenStack source as well:

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: migration.harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
kind: VirtualMachineImport
metadata:
  name: openstack-demo
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualMachineName: "openstack-demo" #Name or UUID for instance
  networkMapping:
  - sourceNetwork: "shared"
    destinationNetwork: "default/vlan1"
  - sourceNetwork: "public"
    destinationNetwork: "default/vlan2"
  sourceCluster:
    name: devstack
    namespace: default
    kind: OpenstackSource
    apiVersion: migration.harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
----

[NOTE]
====
OpenStack allows users to have multiple instances with the same name. In such a scenario, users are advised to use the Instance ID. The reconciliation logic tries to perform a name-to-ID lookup when a name is used.
====

==== Known Issues

* *Source virtual machine name is not RFC1123-compliant*: When creating a virtual machine object, the vm-import-controller add-on uses the name of the source virtual machine, which may not meet the Kubernetes object https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/names/#dns-subdomain-names[naming criteria]. You may need to rename the source virtual machine to allow successful completion of the import.

Commit message:

Add info about fields related to the network interface model
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.6/modules/en/pages/add-ons/vm-import-controller.adoc, after:

= VM Import Controller
:revdate: 2025-09-19
:page-revdate: {revdate}

You can import virtual machines from VMware and OpenStack into {harvester-product-name} using the vm-import-controller add-on. The add-on must be enabled before you start importing virtual machines.

image::vm-import-controller/EnableAddon.png[]

By default, vm-import-controller leverages ephemeral storage, which is mounted from /var/lib/kubelet.

During the migration, a large VM's node could run out of space on this mount, resulting in subsequent scheduling failures.

To avoid this, users are advised to enable PVC-backed storage and customize the amount of storage needed. According to the best practice, the PVC size should be twice the size of the largest VM being migrated. This is essential as the PVC is used as scratch space to download the VM, and convert the disks into raw image files.

image::vm-import-controller/ConfigureAddon.png[]

== vm-import-controller

Currently, the following source providers are supported:

* VMware
* OpenStack

== API

The vm-import-controller introduces two CRDs.

=== Sources

Sources allow users to define valid source clusters.

For example:

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: migration.harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
kind: VmwareSource
metadata:
  name: vcsim
  namespace: default
spec:
  endpoint: "https://vscim/sdk"
  dc: "DCO"
  credentials:
    name: vsphere-credentials
    namespace: default
----

The secret contains the credentials for the vCenter endpoint:

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: vsphere-credentials
  namespace: default
stringData:
  "username": "user"
  "password": "password"
----

As part of the reconciliation process, the controller will log into vCenter and verify whether the `dc` specified in the source spec is valid.

Once this check is passed, the source is marked as ready and can be used for VM migrations.

[,shell]
----
$ kubectl get vmwaresource.migration
NAME      STATUS
vcsim   clusterReady
----

For OpenStack-based source clusters, an example definition is as follows:

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: migration.harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
kind: OpenstackSource
metadata:
  name: devstack
  namespace: default
spec:
  endpoint: "https://devstack/identity"
  region: "RegionOne"
  credentials:
    name: devstack-credentials
    namespace: default
----

The secret contains the credentials for the OpenStack endpoint:

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: devstack-credentials
  namespace: default
stringData:
  "username": "user"
  "password": "password"
  "project_name": "admin"
  "domain_name": "default"
  "ca_cert": "pem-encoded-ca-cert"
----

The OpenStack source reconciliation process attempts to list VMs in the project and marks the source as ready.

[,shell]
----
$ kubectl get opestacksource.migration
NAME       STATUS
devstack   clusterReady
----

=== VirtualMachineImport

The VirtualMachineImport CRD provides a way for users to define a source VM and map to the actual source cluster to perform VM export/import.

A sample VirtualMachineImport looks like this:

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: migration.harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
kind: VirtualMachineImport
metadata:
  name: alpine-export-test
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualMachineName: "alpine-export-test"
  folder: "Discovered VM"
  networkMapping:
  - sourceNetwork: "dvSwitch 1"
    destinationNetwork: "default/vlan1"
  - sourceNetwork: "dvSwitch 2"
    destinationNetwork: "default/vlan2"
    networkInterfaceModel: "e1000"
  defaultNetworkInterfaceModel: "virtio"
  skipPreflightChecks: false
  storageClass: "my-storage-class"
  defaultDiskBusType: "scsi"
  sourceCluster:
    name: vcsim
    namespace: default
    kind: VmwareSource
    apiVersion: migration.harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
----

This prompts the controller to export the virtual machine named `alpine-export-test` on the source VMware cluster to be exported, processed, and recreated in the {harvester-product-name} cluster.

The controller checks the configuration before starting the import process, and cancels the import when it detects errors such as unknown xref:storage/storageclass.adoc[StorageClasses] or networks. These checks are enabled by default, but can be disabled by setting `skipPreflightChecks` to `true`.

The duration of the import process depends on the size of the virtual machine. While the import process may take some time, you should see `VirtualMachineImages` created for each disk in the defined virtual machine.

If the source virtual machine is placed in a folder, you can specify the folder name in the optional `folder` field.

The list of items in `networkMapping` will define how the source network interfaces are mapped to the {harvester-product-name} Networks.

If necessary, you can specify the model of each source network interface individually using the `networkInterfaceModel` field. The valid values are `e1000`, `e1000e`, `ne2k_pci`, `pcnet`, `rtl8139` and `virtio`.

Specifying the default interface model using the `defaultNetworkInterfaceModel` field is particularly useful in the following situations:

* You want to override the default model used when the automatic detection does not work for VMware imports or the default model used for all network interfaces for OpenStack imports.
* No network mapping is provided and the `pod-network` network interface is automatically created.

If you do not specify a value, `virtio` is used by default.

If a match is not found, each unmatched network interface is attached to the default `managementNetwork`.

The `storageClass` field specifies the xref:storage/storageclass.adoc[StorageClass] to be used for images and provisioning of persistent volumes during the import process. If no value is specified, {harvester-product-name} uses the default StorageClass.

The `defaultDiskBusType` field allows you to specify the bus type for imported disks. {harvester-product-name} uses this field in the following ways:

* VMware sources: The value is used only if {harvester-product-name} is unable to automatically detect the bus type.
* OpenStack sources: The value is used for all imported disks.

The valid values are `sata`, `scsi`, `usb`, and `virtio`. If you do not specify a value, `virtio` is used by default.

Once the virtual machine has been imported successfully, the object will reflect the status:

[,shell]
----
$ kubectl get virtualmachineimport.migration
NAME                    STATUS
alpine-export-test      virtualMachineRunning
openstack-cirros-test   virtualMachineRunning
----

Similarly, users can define a VirtualMachineImport for an OpenStack source as well:

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: migration.harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
kind: VirtualMachineImport
metadata:
  name: openstack-demo
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualMachineName: "openstack-demo" #Name or UUID for instance
  networkMapping:
  - sourceNetwork: "shared"
    destinationNetwork: "default/vlan1"
  - sourceNetwork: "public"
    destinationNetwork: "default/vlan2"
  sourceCluster:
    name: devstack
    namespace: default
    kind: OpenstackSource
    apiVersion: migration.harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
----

[NOTE]
====
OpenStack allows users to have multiple instances with the same name. In such a scenario, users are advised to use the Instance ID. The reconciliation logic tries to perform a name-to-ID lookup when a name is used.
====

==== Known Issues

* *Source virtual machine name is not RFC1123-compliant*: When creating a virtual machine object, the vm-import-controller add-on uses the name of the source virtual machine, which may not meet the Kubernetes object https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/names/#dns-subdomain-names[naming criteria]. You may need to rename the source virtual machine to allow successful completion of the import.
