versions/v1.4/modules/en/pages/virtual-machines/vm-images/image-security.adoc, before:

= Image Security

Harvester allows you to encrypt and decrypt virtual machine images. The encryption mechanism utilizes the Linux kernel module dm_crypt and the command-line utility cryptsetup.

== Prerequisites

Prepare the following resources:

* Source virtual machine image: You can xref:./upload-image.adoc[upload or create an image] using any of the supported methods.
+
[CAUTION]
====
Do not upload an encrypted image.
====
+
* Secret: A Kubernetes secret is used as the passphrase of dm_crypt. You must specify the value of the `CRYPTO_KEY_VALUE` field. All other fields are fixed.
+
image::vm/create-encryption-used-secret.png[]
+
Example of a secret:
+
[,YAML]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: encryption
  namespace: default
data:
  CRYPTO_KEY_CIPHER: aes-xts-plain64
  CRYPTO_KEY_HASH: sha256
  CRYPTO_KEY_PROVIDER: secret
  CRYPTO_KEY_SIZE: 256
  CRYPTO_KEY_VALUE: "Your encryption passphrase"
  CRYPTO_PBKDF: argon2i
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You can create a secret in the system namespace using kubectl or the Harvester UI (*Edit as YAML* feature). Resources in the system namespace are not displayed on the Harvester UI *Secrets* screen.
====
+
* StorageClass: Images are encrypted using Longhorn, so required fields must be passed to the Longhorn CSI Driver. You can specify the encryption secret when creating a StorageClass. For more information, see xref:./upload-image.adoc#image-storageclass[Image StorageClass].
+ 
image::vm/create-storage-class.png[]
+
Example of a StorageClass:
+
[,YAML]
----
allowVolumeExpansion: true
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: encryption
parameters:
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-name: encryption
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-namespace: default
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: encryption
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: default
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: encryption
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: default
  encrypted: "true"
  migratable: "true"
  numberOfReplicas: "3"
  staleReplicaTimeout: "2880"
provisioner: driver.longhorn.io
reclaimPolicy: Delete
volumeBindingMode: Immediate
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You can create a secret in the system namespace using the Harvester UI (*Edit as YAML* feature) and kubectl. Resources in the system namespace are not displayed on the Harvester UI *Secrets* screen.
====

== Encrypt a Virtual Machine Image

. On the Harvester UI, go to *Images*.
+
. Click *Create*.
+
. Specify a namespace and a name.
+
. On the *Basics* tab, select *Encrypt* and then select a source image.
+
image::vm/create-encrypted-image.png[]
+
. On the *Storage* tab, select a StorageClass that includes encryption-related fields. 
+
Harvester passes the required fields to Longhorn.
+
image::vm/select-encryption-storage-class.png[]
+
. Click *Create*.

== Decrypt a Virtual Machine Image

. On the Harvester UI, go to *Images*.
+
. Click *Create*.
+
. Specify a namespace and a name.
+
. On the *Basics* tab, select *Decrypt* and then select a source image.
+
image::vm/create-decrypted-image.png[]
+
. On the *Storage* tab, select *harvester-longhorn (Default)* or another commonly used StorageClass.
+
Harvester uses the StorageClass of the source image that you want to decrypt.
+
image::vm/select-normal-storage-class.png[]
+
. Click *Create*.

== Use an Image with Encrypted Volumes

You must select the image that you want to use when creating a virtual machine.

image::vm/create.png[]

The *Virtual Machines* screen displays the following icons and messages when volumes used by virtual machines are encrypted.

image::vm/case1.png[]

image::vm/case2.png[]

To determine which volumes are encrypted, check the *Volumes* tab on the *Virtual Machine* details screen.

image::vm/volume-detail.png[]

== Advanced Usage with Rancher Integration

The secret is an unencrypted Base64-encoded string. To keep the secret safe, you can use projects and namespaces to isolate permissions. For more information, see xref:../../integrations/rancher/virtualization-management.adoc#multi-tenancy[Multi-Tenancy].

== Limitations

You cannot perform the following actions:

* Export a new image from an encrypted image
* Download an encrypted image
* Upload an encrypted image

Commit message:

Add harvester-product-name variable to Virtual Machines topics
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.4/modules/en/pages/virtual-machines/vm-images/image-security.adoc, after:

= Image Security

{harvester-product-name} allows you to encrypt and decrypt virtual machine images. The encryption mechanism utilizes the Linux kernel module dm_crypt and the command-line utility cryptsetup.

== Prerequisites

Prepare the following resources:

* Source virtual machine image: You can xref:./upload-image.adoc[upload or create an image] using any of the supported methods.
+
[CAUTION]
====
Do not upload an encrypted image.
====
+
* Secret: A Kubernetes secret is used as the passphrase of dm_crypt. You must specify the value of the `CRYPTO_KEY_VALUE` field. All other fields are fixed.
+
image::vm/create-encryption-used-secret.png[]
+
Example of a secret:
+
[,YAML]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: encryption
  namespace: default
data:
  CRYPTO_KEY_CIPHER: aes-xts-plain64
  CRYPTO_KEY_HASH: sha256
  CRYPTO_KEY_PROVIDER: secret
  CRYPTO_KEY_SIZE: 256
  CRYPTO_KEY_VALUE: "Your encryption passphrase"
  CRYPTO_PBKDF: argon2i
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You can create a secret in the system namespace using kubectl and the {harvester-product-name} UI (*Edit as YAML* feature). Resources in the system namespace are not displayed on the *Secrets* screen.
====
+
* StorageClass: Images are encrypted using Longhorn, so required fields must be passed to the Longhorn CSI Driver. You can specify the encryption secret when creating a StorageClass. For more information, see xref:./upload-image.adoc#image-storageclass[Image StorageClass].
+ 
image::vm/create-storage-class.png[]
+
Example of a StorageClass:
+
[,YAML]
----
allowVolumeExpansion: true
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: encryption
parameters:
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-name: encryption
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-namespace: default
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: encryption
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: default
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: encryption
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: default
  encrypted: "true"
  migratable: "true"
  numberOfReplicas: "3"
  staleReplicaTimeout: "2880"
provisioner: driver.longhorn.io
reclaimPolicy: Delete
volumeBindingMode: Immediate
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You can create a secret in the system namespace using kubectl and the {harvester-product-name} UI (*Edit as YAML* feature). Resources in the system namespace are not displayed on the *Secrets* screen.
====

== Encrypt a Virtual Machine Image

. On the {harvester-product-name} UI, go to *Images*.
+
. Click *Create*.
+
. Specify a namespace and a name.
+
. On the *Basics* tab, select *Encrypt* and then select a source image.
+
image::vm/create-encrypted-image.png[]
+
. On the *Storage* tab, select a StorageClass that includes encryption-related fields. 
+
{harvester-product-name} passes the required fields to Longhorn.
+
image::vm/select-encryption-storage-class.png[]
+
. Click *Create*.

== Decrypt a Virtual Machine Image

. On the {harvester-product-name} UI, go to *Images*.
+
. Click *Create*.
+
. Specify a namespace and a name.
+
. On the *Basics* tab, select *Decrypt* and then select a source image.
+
image::vm/create-decrypted-image.png[]
+
. On the *Storage* tab, select *harvester-longhorn (Default)* or another commonly used StorageClass.
+
{harvester-product-name} uses the StorageClass of the source image that you want to decrypt.
+
image::vm/select-normal-storage-class.png[]
+
. Click *Create*.

== Use an Image with Encrypted Volumes

You must select the image that you want to use when creating a virtual machine.

image::vm/create.png[]

The *Virtual Machines* screen displays the following icons and messages when volumes used by virtual machines are encrypted.

image::vm/case1.png[]

image::vm/case2.png[]

To determine which volumes are encrypted, check the *Volumes* tab on the *Virtual Machine* details screen.

image::vm/volume-detail.png[]

== Advanced Usage with {rancher-product-name} Integration

The secret is an unencrypted Base64-encoded string. To keep the secret safe, you can use projects and namespaces to isolate permissions. For more information, see xref:../../integrations/rancher/virtualization-management.adoc#multi-tenancy[Multi-Tenancy].

== Limitations

You cannot perform the following actions:

* Export a new image from an encrypted image
* Download an encrypted image
* Upload an encrypted image
