versions/v1.3/modules/en/pages/upgrades/v1-3-2-to-v1-4-0.adoc, before:

= Upgrade from v1.3.2 to v1.4.0

== General Information

An *Upgrade* button appears on the *Dashboard* screen whenever a new Harvester version that you can upgrade to becomes available. For more information, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#start-an-upgrade[Start an upgrade].

For air-gapped environments, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#prepare-an-air-gapped-upgrade[Prepare an air-gapped upgrade].

== Known Issues

=== 1. The upgrade process becomes stuck in the "Pre-draining" state.

A virtual machine with a container disk cannot be migrated because of a limitation of the live migration feature. This causes the upgrade process to become stuck in the "Pre-draining" state.

[TIP]
====
Manually stop the virtual machines to continue the upgrade process.
====

For more information, see https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7005[Issue #7005].

=== 2. The upgrade process becomes stuck on waiting for the Harvester bundle to become ready.

This issue is caused by a race condition when the Fleet agent (`fleet-agent`) is redeployed. The following error messages indicate that the issue exists.

[,shell]
----
> kubectl get bundles -n fleet-local
NAME                                          BUNDLEDEPLOYMENTS-READY   STATUS
mcc-harvester                                 0/1                       ErrApplied(1) [Cluster fleet-local/local: encountered 2 deletion errors. First is: admission webhook "validator.harvesterhci.io" denied the request: Internal error occurred: no route match found for DELETE /v1, Kind=Secret harvester-system/sh.helm.release.v1.harvester.v2]
mcc-harvester-crd                             0/1                       ErrApplied(1) [Cluster fleet-local/local: admission webhook "validator.harvesterhci.io" denied the request: Internal error occurred: no route match found for DELETE /v1, Kind=Secret harvester-system/sh.helm.release.v1.harvester-crd.v1]
----

You can run the following script to fix the issue.

[,shell]
----
#!/bin/bash

patch_fleet_bundle() {
  local bundleName=$1
  local generation=$(kubectl get -n fleet-local bundle ${bundleName} -o jsonpath='{.spec.forceSyncGeneration}')
  local new_generation=$((generation+1))
  patch_manifest="$(mktemp)"
  cat > "$patch_manifest" <<EOF
{
  "spec": {
    "forceSyncGeneration": $new_generation
  }
}
EOF
  echo "patch bundle to new generation: $new_generation"
  kubectl patch -n fleet-local bundle ${bundleName}  --type=merge --patch-file $patch_manifest
  rm -f $patch_manifest
}

echo "removing harvester validating webhook"
kubectl delete validatingwebhookconfiguration harvester-validator

for bundle in mcc-harvester-crd mcc-harvester
do
  patch_fleet_bundle ${bundle}
done

echo "removing longhorn services"
kubectl delete svc longhorn-engine-manager -n longhorn-system --ignore-not-found=true
kubectl delete svc longhorn-replica-manager -n longhorn-system --ignore-not-found=true
----

=== 3. Upgrade stuck on waiting for Fleet

When upgrading from v1.3.2 to v1.4.0, the upgrade process may become stuck on waiting for Fleet to become ready. This issue is caused by a race condition when Rancher is redeployed.

Check the Harvester logs and Fleet history for the following indicators:

* The manifest pod is stuck in the `deployed` status.
* The upgrade is pending with a chart version that has been deployed.

Example:

[,shell]
----
> kubectl logs -n harvester-system -l harvesterhci.io/upgradeComponent=manifest
wait helm release cattle-fleet-system fleet fleet-104.0.2+up0.10.2 0.10.2 deployed

> helm history -n cattle-fleet-system fleet
REVISION	UPDATED                 	STATUS         	CHART                	APP VERSION	DESCRIPTION
26      	Tue Dec 10 03:09:13 2024	superseded     	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
27      	Sun Dec 15 09:26:54 2024	superseded     	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
28      	Sun Dec 15 09:27:03 2024	superseded     	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
29      	Mon Dec 16 05:57:03 2024	deployed       	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
30      	Mon Dec 16 05:57:13 2024	pending-upgrade	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Preparing upgrade
----

You can run the following command to fix the issue.

[,shell]
----
helm rollback fleet -n cattle-fleet-system <last-deployed-revision>
----

Commit message:

Add text per PR 736 (Dismiss it button issue)
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.3/modules/en/pages/upgrades/v1-3-2-to-v1-4-0.adoc, after:

= Upgrade from v1.3.2 to v1.4.0

== General Information

An *Upgrade* button appears on the *Dashboard* screen whenever a new Harvester version that you can upgrade to becomes available. For more information, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#start-an-upgrade[Start an upgrade].

For air-gapped environments, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#prepare-an-air-gapped-upgrade[Prepare an air-gapped upgrade].

== Known Issues

=== 1. Upgrade Stuck in "Pre-draining" State

A virtual machine with a container disk cannot be migrated because of a limitation of the live migration feature. This causes the upgrade process to become stuck in the "Pre-draining" state.

[TIP]
====
Manually stop the virtual machines to continue the upgrade process.
====

For more information, see https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7005[Issue #7005].

=== 2. Upgrade Stuck on Waiting for Bundle to Become Ready

This issue is caused by a race condition when the Fleet agent (`fleet-agent`) is redeployed. The following error messages indicate that the issue exists.

[,shell]
----
> kubectl get bundles -n fleet-local
NAME                                          BUNDLEDEPLOYMENTS-READY   STATUS
mcc-harvester                                 0/1                       ErrApplied(1) [Cluster fleet-local/local: encountered 2 deletion errors. First is: admission webhook "validator.harvesterhci.io" denied the request: Internal error occurred: no route match found for DELETE /v1, Kind=Secret harvester-system/sh.helm.release.v1.harvester.v2]
mcc-harvester-crd                             0/1                       ErrApplied(1) [Cluster fleet-local/local: admission webhook "validator.harvesterhci.io" denied the request: Internal error occurred: no route match found for DELETE /v1, Kind=Secret harvester-system/sh.helm.release.v1.harvester-crd.v1]
----

You can run the following script to fix the issue.

[,shell]
----
#!/bin/bash

patch_fleet_bundle() {
  local bundleName=$1
  local generation=$(kubectl get -n fleet-local bundle ${bundleName} -o jsonpath='{.spec.forceSyncGeneration}')
  local new_generation=$((generation+1))
  patch_manifest="$(mktemp)"
  cat > "$patch_manifest" <<EOF
{
  "spec": {
    "forceSyncGeneration": $new_generation
  }
}
EOF
  echo "patch bundle to new generation: $new_generation"
  kubectl patch -n fleet-local bundle ${bundleName}  --type=merge --patch-file $patch_manifest
  rm -f $patch_manifest
}

echo "removing harvester validating webhook"
kubectl delete validatingwebhookconfiguration harvester-validator

for bundle in mcc-harvester-crd mcc-harvester
do
  patch_fleet_bundle ${bundle}
done

echo "removing longhorn services"
kubectl delete svc longhorn-engine-manager -n longhorn-system --ignore-not-found=true
kubectl delete svc longhorn-replica-manager -n longhorn-system --ignore-not-found=true
----

=== 3. Upgrade Stuck on Waiting for Fleet

When upgrading from v1.3.2 to v1.4.0, the upgrade process may become stuck on waiting for Fleet to become ready. This issue is caused by a race condition when Rancher is redeployed.

Check the Harvester logs and Fleet history for the following indicators:

* The manifest pod is stuck in the `deployed` status.
* The upgrade is pending with a chart version that has been deployed.

Example:

[,shell]
----
> kubectl logs -n harvester-system -l harvesterhci.io/upgradeComponent=manifest
wait helm release cattle-fleet-system fleet fleet-104.0.2+up0.10.2 0.10.2 deployed

> helm history -n cattle-fleet-system fleet
REVISION	UPDATED                 	STATUS         	CHART                	APP VERSION	DESCRIPTION
26      	Tue Dec 10 03:09:13 2024	superseded     	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
27      	Sun Dec 15 09:26:54 2024	superseded     	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
28      	Sun Dec 15 09:27:03 2024	superseded     	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
29      	Mon Dec 16 05:57:03 2024	deployed       	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Upgrade complete
30      	Mon Dec 16 05:57:13 2024	pending-upgrade	fleet-103.1.5+up0.9.5	0.9.5      	Preparing upgrade
----

You can run the following command to fix the issue.

[,shell]
----
helm rollback fleet -n cattle-fleet-system <last-deployed-revision>
----

=== 4. Upgrade Restarts Unexpectedly After Clicking "Dismiss it" Button

When you use Rancher to upgrade {harvester-product-name}, the Rancher UI displays a dialog with a button labeled "Dismiss it". Clicking this button may result in the following issues:

* The `status` section of the `harvesterhci.io/v1beta1/upgrade` CR is cleared, causing the loss of all important information about the upgrade.
* The upgrade process restarts unexpectedly.

This issue affects Rancher v2.10.x, which uses v1.0.2, v1.0.3, and v1.0.4 of the xref:../integrations/rancher/harvester-ui-extension.adoc#support-matrix[Harvester UI Extension]. All {harvester-product-name} UI versions are not affected. The issue will be fixed in Harvester UI Extension v1.0.5 and v1.5.0.

To avoid this issue, perform either of the following actions:

* Use the {harvester-product-name} UI for upgrades. Clicking the "Dismiss it" button on the {harvester-product-name} UI does not result in unexpected behavior.
* Instead of clicking the button on the Rancher UI, run the following command against the cluster:
+
----
kubectl -n harvester-system label upgrades -l harvesterhci.io/latestUpgrade=true harvesterhci.io/read-message=true
----

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7791[#7791]
