versions/v1.6/modules/en/pages/networking/cluster-network.adoc, before:

= Cluster Network

== Concepts

=== Cluster Network

The following diagram describes a typical network architecture that separates data-center (DC) traffic from out-of-band (OOB) traffic.

image::networking/traffic-isolation.png[Network traffic isolation]

We abstract the sum of devices, links, and configurations on a traffic-isolated forwarding path on {harvester-product-name} as a cluster network.

In the above case, there will be two cluster networks corresponding to two traffic-isolated forwarding paths.

=== Network Configuration

Specifications including network devices of the {harvester-product-name} hosts can be different. To be compatible with such a heterogeneous cluster, we designed the network configuration.

Network configuration only works under a certain cluster network. Each network configuration corresponds to a set of hosts with uniform network specifications. Therefore, multiple network configurations are required for a cluster network on non-uniform hosts.

=== VM Network

A VM network is an interface in a virtual machine that connects to the host network. As with a network configuration, every network except the built-in xref:./vm-network.adoc#_management_network[management network] must be under a cluster network.

{harvester-product-name} supports adding multiple networks to one VM. If a network's cluster network is not enabled on some hosts, the VM that owns this network will not be scheduled to those hosts.

Please refer to xref:./vm-network.adoc[network part] for more details about networks.

=== Relationship Between Cluster Network, Network Config, VM Network

The following diagram shows the relationship between a cluster network, a network config, and a VM network.

image::networking/relation.png[Harvester networking concepts]

All `Network Configs` and `VM Networks` are grouped under a cluster network.

* A label can be assigned to each host to categorize hosts based on their network specifications.
* A network config can be added for each group of hosts using a node selector.

For example, in the diagram above, the hosts in `ClusterNetwork-A` are divided into three groups as follows:

* The first group includes host0, which corresponds to `network-config-A`.
* The second group includes host1 and host2, which correspond to `network-config-B`.
* The third group includes the remaining hosts (host3, host4, and host5), which do not have any related network config and therefore do not belong to `ClusterNetwork-A`.

The cluster network is only effective on hosts that are covered by the network configuration. A VM using a `VM network` under a specific cluster network can only be scheduled on a host where the cluster network is active.

In the diagram above, we can see that:

* `ClusterNetwork-A` is active on host0, host1, and host2. `VM0` uses `VM-network-A`, so it can be scheduled on any of these hosts.
* `VM1` uses both `VM-network-B` and `VM-network-C`, so it can only be scheduled on host2 where both `ClusterNetwork-A` and `ClusterNetwork-B` are active.
* `VM0`, `VM1`, and `VM2` cannot run on host3 where the two cluster networks are inactive.

Overall, this diagram provides a clear visualization of the relationship between cluster networks, network configurations, and VM networks, as well as how they impact VM scheduling on hosts.

== Cluster Network Details

=== Built-in Cluster Network

{harvester-product-name} provides a built-in cluster network called `mgmt`. It's different from the custom cluster network. The `mgmt` cluster network:

* Cannot be deleted.
* Does not need any network configuration.
* Is enabled on all hosts and cannot be disabled.
* Shares the same traffic egress with the management network.

If there is no need for traffic separation, you can put all your network under the mgmt cluster network.

=== Custom Cluster Network

You are allowed to add the custom cluster network, which will not be available until it's enabled on some hosts by adding a network configuration.

[NOTE]
====
Before creating a new cluster network, ensure that the xref:../installation-setup/requirements.adoc#_hardware_requirements[hardware requirements] are met.

The xref:../hosts/witness-node.adoc[witness node] is generally not involved in the custom cluster network.
====

== Configuration

=== Create a new cluster network

[TIP]
====
To simplify cluster maintenance, create one network configuration for each node or group of nodes. Without dedicated network configurations, certain maintenance tasks (for example, replacing old NICs with NICs in different slots) will require you to stop and/or migrate the affected virtual machines before updating the network configuration.
====

. Go to *Networks -> ClusterNetworks/Configs*, and then click *Create*.

. Specify a name for the cluster network.
+
image::networking/create-clusternetwork.png[Create a cluster network]

. On the *ClusterNetworks/Configs* screen, click the *Create Network Config* button of the cluster network you created.
+
image::networking/create-network-config-button.png[Create a network configuration]

. On the *Network Config:Create* screen, specify a name for the configuration.

. On the *Node Selector* tab, select the method for defining the scope of this specific network configuration.
+
image::networking/select-nodes.png[Network configuration node selector]
+
[NOTE]
====
* The method *Select all nodes* works only when all nodes use the exact same dedicated NICs for this specific custom cluster network. In other situations (for example, when the cluster has a xref:../hosts/witness-node.adoc[witness node]), you must select either of the remaining methods.
* If you want the configuration to apply to nodes that are not covered by the selected method, you must create another network configuration.
====

. On the *Uplink* tab, configure the following settings:
+
** *NICs*: The list contains NICs that are common to all selected nodes. NICs that cannot be selected are unavailable on one or more nodes and must be configured. Once troubleshooting is completed, refresh the screen and verify that the NICs can be selected.
** *Bond Options*: The default value is *active-backup*.
** *Attributes*
+
image::networking/config-uplink.png[Network configuration uplink settings]

=== Change a network configuration

Changes to existing network configurations may affect {harvester-product-name} virtual machines and workloads, and external devices such as switches and routers. For more information, see xref:./deep-dive.adoc#_network_topology[Network Topology].

The following sections outline the steps you must perform to change the MTU of a network configuration. The sample cluster network used in these sections has `cn-data` that was built with an MTU value of `1500` and is intended to be changed to `9000`.

image::networking/set-a-new-mtu-value.png[New MTU value]

==== Change the MTU of a network configuration with no attached storage network

In this scenario, the xref:./storage-network.adoc#_harvester_storage_network_setting[storage network] is neither enabled nor attached to the target cluster network.

[CAUTION]
====
* The MTU affects {harvester-product-name} nodes and networking devices such as switches and routers. Careful planning and testing are required to ensure that changing the MTU does not adversely affect the system. For more information, see xref:./deep-dive.adoc#_network_topology[Network Topology].
* You must use the same MTU across all network configurations of a custom cluster network. You must also manually update the MTU on existing virtual machine networks.
* Cluster operations are interrupted during the configuration change.
* The information in this section does not apply to the built-in `mgmt` cluster network.
====

If you must change the MTU, perform the following steps:

. Stop all virtual machines that are attached to the target cluster network.
+
You can check this using the xref:./vm-network.adoc#_create_a_vm_network[virtual machine network] and any xref:../virtual-machines/create-vm.adoc#_secondary_network[secondary networks] you may have used. Do not change the MTU while any of the connected virtual machines are still running.

. Check the network configurations of the target cluster network.
+
If multiple network configurations exist, record the node selector for each and remove configurations until only one remains.

. Verify that the MTU was changed using the Linux `ip link` command.
+
If the network configuration selects multiple {harvester-product-name} nodes, run the command on each node.
+
The output must show the new MTU of the related `*-br` device and the state `UP`. In the following example, the device is `cn-data-br` and the new MTU is `9000`.
+
[,console]
----
Harvester node $ ip link show dev cn-data-br
                                              |new MTU|              |state UP|
3: cn-data-br: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 9000 qdisc noqueue state UP mode DEFAULT group default qlen 1000
    link/ether 52:54:00:6e:5c:2a brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
----
+
[NOTE]
====
When the state is `UNKNOWN`, it is likely that the MTU values on {harvester-product-name} and the external switch or router do not match.
====

. Test the new MTU on {harvester-product-name} nodes using commands such as `ping`.
+
You must send the messages to a {harvester-product-name} node with the new MTU or a node with an external IP.
+
In the following example, the CIDR `192.168.100.0/24` and gateway `192.168.100.1` are prepared for the `cn-data` network.
+
.. Set the IP `192.168.100.100` on the bridge device.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip addr add dev cn-data-br 192.168.100.100/24
----
+
.. Add a route for the destination IP (for example, `8.8.8.8`) via the gateway.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip route add 8.8.8.8 via 192.168.100.1 dev cn-data-br
----
+
.. Ping the destination IP from the new IP `192.168.100.100`.
+
[,console]
----
$ ping 8.8.8.8 -I 192.168.100.100
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) from 192.168.100.100 : 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_seq=1 ttl=59 time=8.52 ms
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_seq=2 ttl=59 time=8.90 ms
...
----
+
.. Ping the destination IP with a different packet size to validate the new MTU.
+
[,console]
----
$ ping 8.8.8.8 -s 8800 -I 192.168.100.100
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) from 192.168.100.100 : 8800(8828) bytes of data
The param `-s` specify the ping packet size, which can test if the new MTU really works
----
+
.. Remove the route that you used for testing.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip route delete 8.8.8.8 via 192.168.100.1 dev cn-data-br
----
+
.. Remove the IP that you used for testing.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip addr delete 192.168.100.100/24 dev cn-data-br
----

. Add back the network configurations that you removed.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You must change the MTU in each one, and verify that the new MTU was applied.
====

. Edit the YAML of all virtual machine networks that are attached to the target cluster network.
+
On the *Virtual Machine Networks* screen, perform the following steps for each attached network:
+
.. Select *⋮ -> Edit YAML*.
+
image::networking/edit-vm-networks.png[Edit virtual machine network YAML]
+
.. Change the MTU.
+
image::networking/edit-vm-network-mtu.png[Change virtual machine network MTU]
+
.. Click *Save*.
+
You can also use `kubectl` to change the MTU. In the following example, the network name is `vm100`. To edit the YAML of this network, run the command `kubectl edit NetworkAttachmentDefinition.k8s.cni.cncf.io vm100`.
+
[,console]
----
    apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
    kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
    metadata:
      annotations:
        network.harvesterhci.io/route: '{"mode":"auto","serverIPAddr":"","cidr":"","gateway":""}'
      creationTimestamp: '2025-04-25T10:21:01Z'
      finalizers:
        - wrangler.cattle.io/harvester-network-nad-controller
        - wrangler.cattle.io/harvester-network-manager-nad-controller
      generation: 1
      labels:
        network.harvesterhci.io/clusternetwork: cn-data
        network.harvesterhci.io/ready: 'true'
        network.harvesterhci.io/type: L2VlanNetwork
        network.harvesterhci.io/vlan-id: '100'
      name: vm100
      namespace: default
      resourceVersion: '1525839'
      uid: 8dacf415-ce90-414a-a11b-48f041d46b42
    spec:
      config: >-
        {"cniVersion":"0.3.1","name":"vm100","type":"bridge","bridge":"cn-data-br","promiscMode":true,"vlan":100,"ipam":{},"mtu":1500}
----

. Start all virtual machines that are attached to the target cluster network.
+
The virtual machines should have inherited the new MTU. You can verify this in the guest operating system using the Linux `ip link` command and `ping 8.8.8.8 -s 8800` command.

. Verify that the virtual machine workloads are running normally.

[IMPORTANT]
====
{harvester-product-name} cannot be held responsible for any damage or loss of data that may occur when the MTU value is changed.
====

==== Change the MTU of a network configuration with an attached storage network

In this scenario, the xref:./storage-network.adoc#_harvester_storage_network_setting[storage network] is enabled and attached to the target cluster network.

The storage network is used by `driver.longhorn.io`, which is {harvester-product-name}'s default CSI driver. Longhorn is responsible for provisioning xref:../virtual-machines/create-vm.adoc#_volumes[root volumes], so changing the MTU affects all virtual machines.

[CAUTION]
====
* The MTU affects {harvester-product-name} nodes and networking devices such as switches and routers. Careful planning and testing are required to ensure that changing the MTU does not adversely affect the system. For more information, see xref:./deep-dive.adoc#_network_topology[Network Topology].
* You must use the same MTU across all network configurations of a custom cluster network. You must also manually update the MTU on existing virtual machine networks.
* All cluster operations are interrupted during the configuration change.
* The information in this section does not apply to the built-in `mgmt` cluster network.
====

If you must change the MTU, perform the following steps:

. Stop all virtual machines.

. Disable the xref:./storage-network.adoc#_harvester_storage_network_setting[storage network setting].
+
Allow some time for the setting to be disabled, and then xref:./storage-network.adoc#_verify_configuration_is_completed[verify that the change was applied].

. Check the network configurations of the target cluster network.
+
If multiple network configurations exist, record the node selector for each and remove configurations until only one remains.

. Change the MTU of the remaining network configuration.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You must also change the MTU on the peer external switch or router.
====

. Verify that the MTU was changed using the Linux `ip link` command.
+
If the network configuration selects multiple {harvester-product-name} nodes, run the command on each node.
+
The output must show the new MTU of the related `*-br` device and the state `UP`. In the following example, the device is `cn-data-br` and the new MTU is `9000`.
+
[,console]
----
Harvester node $ ip link show dev cn-data-br
                                              |new MTU|              |state UP|
3: cn-data-br: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 9000 qdisc noqueue state UP mode DEFAULT group default qlen 1000
    link/ether 52:54:00:6e:5c:2a brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
----
+
[NOTE]
====
When the state is `UNKNOWN`, it is likely that the MTU values on {harvester-product-name} and the external switch or router do not match.
====

. Test the new MTU on {harvester-product-name} nodes using commands such as `ping`.
+
You must send the messages to a {harvester-product-name} node with the new MTU or to a node with an external IP.
+
In the following example, the CIDR `192.168.100.0/24` and gateway `192.168.100.1` are prepared for the `cn-data` network.
+
.. Set the IP `192.168.100.100` on the bridge device.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip addr add dev cn-data-br 192.168.100.100/24
----
+
.. Add a route for the destination IP (for example, `8.8.8.8`) via the gateway.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip route add 8.8.8.8 via 192.168.100.1 dev cn-data-br
----
+
.. Ping the destination IP from the new IP `192.168.100.100`.
+
[,console]
----
$ ping 8.8.8.8 -I 192.168.100.100
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) from 192.168.100.100 : 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_seq=1 ttl=59 time=8.52 ms
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_seq=2 ttl=59 time=8.90 ms
...
----
+
.. Ping the destination IP with a different packet size to validate the new MTU.
+
[,console]
----
$ ping 8.8.8.8 -s 8800 -I 192.168.100.100
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) from 192.168.100.100 : 8800(8828) bytes of data
The param `-s` specify the ping packet size, which can test if the new MTU really works
----
+
.. Remove the route that you used for testing.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip route delete 8.8.8.8 via 192.168.100.1 dev cn-data-br
----
+
.. Remove the IP that you used for testing.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip addr delete 192.168.100.100/24 dev cn-data-br
----

. Add back the network configurations that you removed, change the MTU in each one, and verify that the new MTU was applied.

. Enable and configure the xref:./storage-network.adoc#_harvester_storage_network_setting[storage network setting], ensuring that the xref:./storage-network.adoc#_prerequisites[prerequisites] are met.
+
Allow some time for the setting to be enabled, and then xref:./storage-network.adoc#_verify_configuration_is_completed[verify that the change was applied].

. Edit the YAML of all virtual machine networks that are attached to the target cluster network.
+
On the *Virtual Machine Networks* screen, perform the following steps for each attached network:
+
.. Select *⋮ -> Edit YAML*.
+
image::networking/edit-vm-networks.png[Edit virtual machine network YAML]
+
.. Change the MTU.
+
image::networking/edit-vm-network-mtu.png[Change virtual machine network MTU]

.. Click *Save*.
+
You can also use `kubectl` to change the MTU. In the following example, the network name is `vm100`. To edit the YAML of this network, run the command `kubectl edit NetworkAttachmentDefinition.k8s.cni.cncf.io vm100`.
+
[console]
----
    apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
    kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
    metadata:
      annotations:
        network.harvesterhci.io/route: '{"mode":"auto","serverIPAddr":"","cidr":"","gateway":""}'
      creationTimestamp: '2025-04-25T10:21:01Z'
      finalizers:
        - wrangler.cattle.io/harvester-network-nad-controller
        - wrangler.cattle.io/harvester-network-manager-nad-controller
      generation: 1
      labels:
        network.harvesterhci.io/clusternetwork: cn-data
        network.harvesterhci.io/ready: 'true'
        network.harvesterhci.io/type: L2VlanNetwork
        network.harvesterhci.io/vlan-id: '100'
      name: vm100
      namespace: default
      resourceVersion: '1525839'
      uid: 8dacf415-ce90-414a-a11b-48f041d46b42
    spec:
      config: >-
        {"cniVersion":"0.3.1","name":"vm100","type":"bridge","bridge":"cn-data-br","promiscMode":true,"vlan":100,"ipam":{},"mtu":1500}
----

. Start all virtual machines that are attached to the target cluster network.
+
The virtual machines should have inherited the new MTU. You can verify this in the guest operating system using the Linux `ip link` command and `ping 8.8.8.8 -s 8800` command.

. Verify that the virtual machine workloads are running normally.

[IMPORTANT]
====
{harvester-product-name} cannot be held responsible for any damage or loss of data that may occur when the MTU value is changed.
====

Commit message:

Edit content per PR 791 (Cluster network configuration content improvement)
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.6/modules/en/pages/networking/cluster-network.adoc, after:

= Cluster Network

== Concepts

=== Cluster Network

The following diagram describes a typical network architecture that separates data-center (DC) traffic from out-of-band (OOB) traffic.

image::networking/traffic-isolation.png[Network traffic isolation]

We abstract the sum of devices, links, and configurations on a traffic-isolated forwarding path on {harvester-product-name} as a cluster network.

In the above case, there will be two cluster networks corresponding to two traffic-isolated forwarding paths.

=== Network Configuration

Specifications including network devices of the {harvester-product-name} hosts can be different. To be compatible with such a heterogeneous cluster, we designed the network configuration.

Network configuration only works under a certain cluster network. Each network configuration corresponds to a set of hosts with uniform network specifications. Therefore, multiple network configurations are required for a cluster network on non-uniform hosts.

=== VM Network

A VM network is an interface in a virtual machine that connects to the host network. As with a network configuration, every network except the built-in xref:./vm-network.adoc#_management_network[management network] must be under a cluster network.

{harvester-product-name} supports adding multiple networks to one VM. If a network's cluster network is not enabled on some hosts, the VM that owns this network will not be scheduled to those hosts.

Please refer to xref:./vm-network.adoc[network part] for more details about networks.

=== Relationship Between Cluster Network, Network Config, VM Network

The following diagram shows the relationship between a cluster network, a network config, and a VM network.

image::networking/relation.png[Harvester networking concepts]

All `Network Configs` and `VM Networks` are grouped under a cluster network.

* A label can be assigned to each host to categorize hosts based on their network specifications.
* A network config can be added for each group of hosts using a node selector.

For example, in the diagram above, the hosts in `ClusterNetwork-A` are divided into three groups as follows:

* The first group includes host0, which corresponds to `network-config-A`.
* The second group includes host1 and host2, which correspond to `network-config-B`.
* The third group includes the remaining hosts (host3, host4, and host5), which do not have any related network config and therefore do not belong to `ClusterNetwork-A`.

The cluster network is only effective on hosts that are covered by the network configuration. A VM using a `VM network` under a specific cluster network can only be scheduled on a host where the cluster network is active.

In the diagram above, we can see that:

* `ClusterNetwork-A` is active on host0, host1, and host2. `VM0` uses `VM-network-A`, so it can be scheduled on any of these hosts.
* `VM1` uses both `VM-network-B` and `VM-network-C`, so it can only be scheduled on host2 where both `ClusterNetwork-A` and `ClusterNetwork-B` are active.
* `VM0`, `VM1`, and `VM2` cannot run on host3 where the two cluster networks are inactive.

Overall, this diagram provides a clear visualization of the relationship between cluster networks, network configurations, and VM networks, as well as how they impact VM scheduling on hosts.

== Cluster Network Details

=== Built-in Cluster Network

{harvester-product-name} provides a built-in cluster network called `mgmt`. It's different from the custom cluster network. The `mgmt` cluster network:

* Cannot be deleted.
* Does not need any network configuration.
* Is enabled on all hosts and cannot be disabled.
* Shares the same traffic egress with the management network.

If there is no need for traffic separation, you can put all your network under the mgmt cluster network.

=== Custom Cluster Network

You are allowed to add the custom cluster network, which will not be available until it's enabled on some hosts by adding a network configuration.

[NOTE]
====
Before creating a new cluster network, ensure that the xref:../installation-setup/requirements.adoc#_hardware_requirements[hardware requirements] are met.

The xref:../hosts/witness-node.adoc[witness node] is generally not involved in the custom cluster network.
====

== Configuration

=== Create a new cluster network

[TIP]
====
To simplify cluster maintenance, create one network configuration for each node or group of nodes. Without dedicated network configurations, certain maintenance tasks (for example, replacing old NICs with NICs in different slots) will require you to stop and/or migrate the affected virtual machines before updating the network configuration.
====

. Go to *Networks -> ClusterNetworks/Configs*, and then click *Create*.

. Specify a name for the cluster network.
+
image::networking/create-clusternetwork.png[Create a cluster network]

. On the *ClusterNetworks/Configs* screen, click the *Create Network Config* button of the cluster network you created.
+
image::networking/create-network-config-button.png[Create a network configuration]

. On the *Network Config:Create* screen, specify a name for the configuration.

. On the *Node Selector* tab, select the method for defining the scope of this specific network configuration.
+
image::networking/select-nodes.png[Network configuration node selector]
+
[NOTE]
====
* The method *Select all nodes* works only when all nodes use the exact same dedicated NICs for this specific custom cluster network. In other situations (for example, when the cluster has a xref:../hosts/witness-node.adoc[witness node]), you must select either of the remaining methods.
* If you want the configuration to apply to nodes that are not covered by the selected method, you must create another network configuration.
====

. On the *Uplink* tab, configure the following settings:
+
** *NICs*: The list contains NICs that are common to all selected nodes. NICs that cannot be selected are unavailable on one or more nodes and must be configured. Once troubleshooting is completed, refresh the screen and verify that the NICs can be selected.
** *Bond Options*: The default bonding mode is `active-backup`.
** *Attributes*: You must use the same MTU across all network configurations of a custom cluster network. If you do not specify an MTU, the default value `1500` is used.
+
image::networking/config-uplink.png[Network configuration uplink settings]

. Click *Save*.

=== Change a network configuration

Changes to existing network configurations may affect {harvester-product-name} virtual machines and workloads, and external devices such as switches and routers. For more information, see xref:./deep-dive.adoc#_network_topology[Network Topology].

[IMPORTANT]
====
You must stop all affected virtual machines before changing a network configuration.
====

The following sections outline the steps you must perform to change the MTU of a network configuration. The sample cluster network used in these sections has `cn-data` that was built with an MTU value of `1500` and is intended to be changed to `9000`.

image::networking/set-a-new-mtu-value.png[New MTU value]

==== Change the MTU of a network configuration with no attached storage network

In this scenario, the xref:./storage-network.adoc#_harvester_storage_network_setting[storage network] is neither enabled nor attached to the target cluster network.

[CAUTION]
====
* The MTU affects {harvester-product-name} nodes and networking devices such as switches and routers. Careful planning and testing are required to ensure that changing the MTU does not adversely affect the system. For more information, see xref:./deep-dive.adoc#_network_topology[Network Topology].
* You must use the same MTU across all network configurations of a custom cluster network. You must also manually update the MTU on existing virtual machine networks.
* Cluster operations are interrupted during the configuration change.
* The information in this section does not apply to the built-in `mgmt` cluster network.
====

If you must change the MTU, perform the following steps:

. Stop all virtual machines that are attached to the target cluster network.
+
You can check this using the xref:./vm-network.adoc#_create_a_vm_network[virtual machine network] and any xref:../virtual-machines/create-vm.adoc#_secondary_network[secondary networks] you may have used. Do not change the MTU while any of the connected virtual machines are still running.

. Check the network configurations of the target cluster network.
+
If multiple network configurations exist, record the node selector for each and remove configurations until only one remains.

. Verify that the MTU was changed using the Linux `ip link` command.
+
If the network configuration selects multiple {harvester-product-name} nodes, run the command on each node.
+
The output must show the new MTU of the related `*-br` device and the state `UP`. In the following example, the device is `cn-data-br` and the new MTU is `9000`.
+
[,console]
----
Harvester node $ ip link show dev cn-data-br
                                              |new MTU|              |state UP|
3: cn-data-br: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 9000 qdisc noqueue state UP mode DEFAULT group default qlen 1000
    link/ether 52:54:00:6e:5c:2a brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
----
+
[NOTE]
====
When the state is `UNKNOWN`, it is likely that the MTU values on {harvester-product-name} and the external switch or router do not match.
====

. Test the new MTU on {harvester-product-name} nodes using commands such as `ping`.
+
You must send the messages to a {harvester-product-name} node with the new MTU or a node with an external IP.
+
In the following example, the network is `cn-data`, the CIDR is `192.168.100.0/24`, and the gateway is `192.168.100.1`.
+
.. Set the IP `192.168.100.100` on the bridge device.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip addr add dev cn-data-br 192.168.100.100/24
----
+
.. Add a route for the destination IP (for example, `8.8.8.8`) via the gateway.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip route add 8.8.8.8 via 192.168.100.1 dev cn-data-br
----
+
.. Ping the destination IP from the new IP `192.168.100.100`.
+
[,console]
----
$ ping 8.8.8.8 -I 192.168.100.100
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) from 192.168.100.100 : 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_seq=1 ttl=59 time=8.52 ms
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_seq=2 ttl=59 time=8.90 ms
...
----
+
.. Ping the destination IP with a different packet size to validate the new MTU.
+
[,console]
----
$ ping 8.8.8.8 -s 8800 -I 192.168.100.100
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) from 192.168.100.100 : 8800(8828) bytes of data
The param `-s` specify the ping packet size, which can test if the new MTU really works
----
+
.. Remove the route that you used for testing.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip route delete 8.8.8.8 via 192.168.100.1 dev cn-data-br
----
+
.. Remove the IP that you used for testing.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip addr delete 192.168.100.100/24 dev cn-data-br
----

. Add back the network configurations that you removed.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You must change the MTU in each network configuration, and verify that the new MTU was applied.
====

. Edit the YAML of all virtual machine networks that are attached to the target cluster network.
+
On the *Virtual Machine Networks* screen, perform the following steps for each attached network:
+
.. Select *⋮ -> Edit YAML*.
+
image::networking/edit-vm-networks.png[Edit virtual machine network YAML]
+
.. Change the MTU.
+
image::networking/edit-vm-network-mtu.png[Change virtual machine network MTU]
+
.. Click *Save*.
+
You can also use `kubectl` to change the MTU. In the following example, the network name is `vm100`. To edit the YAML of this network, run the command `kubectl edit NetworkAttachmentDefinition.k8s.cni.cncf.io vm100`.
+
[,console]
----
    apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
    kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
    metadata:
      annotations:
        network.harvesterhci.io/route: '{"mode":"auto","serverIPAddr":"","cidr":"","gateway":""}'
      creationTimestamp: '2025-04-25T10:21:01Z'
      finalizers:
        - wrangler.cattle.io/harvester-network-nad-controller
        - wrangler.cattle.io/harvester-network-manager-nad-controller
      generation: 1
      labels:
        network.harvesterhci.io/clusternetwork: cn-data
        network.harvesterhci.io/ready: 'true'
        network.harvesterhci.io/type: L2VlanNetwork
        network.harvesterhci.io/vlan-id: '100'
      name: vm100
      namespace: default
      resourceVersion: '1525839'
      uid: 8dacf415-ce90-414a-a11b-48f041d46b42
    spec:
      config: >-
        {"cniVersion":"0.3.1","name":"vm100","type":"bridge","bridge":"cn-data-br","promiscMode":true,"vlan":100,"ipam":{},"mtu":1500}
----

. Start all virtual machines that are attached to the target cluster network.
+
The virtual machines should have inherited the new MTU. You can verify this in the guest operating system using the commands `ip link` and `ping 8.8.8.8 -s 8800`.

. Verify that the virtual machine workloads are running normally.

[IMPORTANT]
====
{harvester-product-name} cannot be held responsible for any damage or loss of data that may occur when the MTU value is changed.
====

==== Change the MTU of a network configuration with an attached storage network

In this scenario, the xref:./storage-network.adoc#_harvester_storage_network_setting[storage network] is enabled and attached to the target cluster network.

The storage network is used by `driver.longhorn.io`, which is {harvester-product-name}'s default CSI driver. Longhorn is responsible for provisioning xref:../virtual-machines/create-vm.adoc#_volumes[root volumes], so changing the MTU affects all virtual machines.

[CAUTION]
====
* The MTU affects {harvester-product-name} nodes and networking devices such as switches and routers. Careful planning and testing are required to ensure that changing the MTU does not adversely affect the system. For more information, see xref:./deep-dive.adoc#_network_topology[Network Topology].
* You must use the same MTU across all network configurations of a custom cluster network. You must also manually update the MTU on existing virtual machine networks.
* All cluster operations are interrupted during the configuration change.
* The information in this section does not apply to the built-in `mgmt` cluster network.
====

If you must change the MTU, perform the following steps:

. Stop all virtual machines.

. Disable the xref:./storage-network.adoc#_harvester_storage_network_setting[storage network setting].
+
Allow some time for the setting to be disabled, and then xref:./storage-network.adoc#_verify_configuration_is_completed[verify that the change was applied].

. Check the network configurations of the target cluster network.
+
If multiple network configurations exist, record the node selector for each and remove configurations until only one remains.

. Change the MTU of the remaining network configuration.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You must also change the MTU on the peer external switch or router.
====

. Verify that the MTU was changed using the `ip link` command.
+
If the network configuration selects multiple {harvester-product-name} nodes, run the command on each node.
+
The output must show the new MTU of the related `*-br` device and the state `UP`. In the following example, the device is `cn-data-br` and the new MTU is `9000`.
+
[,console]
----
Harvester node $ ip link show dev cn-data-br
                                              |new MTU|              |state UP|
3: cn-data-br: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 9000 qdisc noqueue state UP mode DEFAULT group default qlen 1000
    link/ether 52:54:00:6e:5c:2a brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
----
+
[NOTE]
====
When the state is `UNKNOWN`, it is likely that the MTU values on {harvester-product-name} and the external switch or router do not match.
====

. Test the new MTU on {harvester-product-name} nodes using commands such as `ping`.
+
You must send the messages to a {harvester-product-name} node with the new MTU or to a node with an external IP.
+
In the following example, the network is `cn-data`, the CIDR is `192.168.100.0/24`, and the gateway is `192.168.100.1`.
+
.. Set the IP `192.168.100.100` on the bridge device.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip addr add dev cn-data-br 192.168.100.100/24
----
+
.. Add a route for the destination IP (for example, `8.8.8.8`) via the gateway.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip route add 8.8.8.8 via 192.168.100.1 dev cn-data-br
----
+
.. Ping the destination IP from the new IP `192.168.100.100`.
+
[,console]
----
$ ping 8.8.8.8 -I 192.168.100.100
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) from 192.168.100.100 : 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_seq=1 ttl=59 time=8.52 ms
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_seq=2 ttl=59 time=8.90 ms
...
----
+
.. Ping the destination IP with a different packet size to validate the new MTU.
+
[,console]
----
$ ping 8.8.8.8 -s 8800 -I 192.168.100.100
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) from 192.168.100.100 : 8800(8828) bytes of data
The param `-s` specify the ping packet size, which can test if the new MTU really works
----
+
.. Remove the route that you used for testing.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip route delete 8.8.8.8 via 192.168.100.1 dev cn-data-br
----
+
.. Remove the IP that you used for testing.
+
[,console]
----
$ ip addr delete 192.168.100.100/24 dev cn-data-br
----

. Add back the network configurations that you removed.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You must change the MTU in each network configuration, and verify that the new MTU was applied.
====

. Enable and configure the xref:./storage-network.adoc#_harvester_storage_network_setting[storage network setting].
+
Ensure that the xref:./storage-network.adoc#_prerequisites[prerequisites] are met.

. Allow some time for the setting to be enabled, and then xref:./storage-network.adoc#_verify_configuration_is_completed[verify that the change was applied].

. Edit the YAML of all virtual machine networks that are attached to the target cluster network.
+
On the *Virtual Machine Networks* screen, perform the following steps for each attached network:
+
.. Select *⋮ -> Edit YAML*.
+
image::networking/edit-vm-networks.png[Edit virtual machine network YAML]
+
.. Change the MTU.
+
image::networking/edit-vm-network-mtu.png[Change virtual machine network MTU]

.. Click *Save*.
+
You can also use `kubectl` to change the MTU. In the following example, the network name is `vm100`. To edit the YAML of this network, run the command `kubectl edit NetworkAttachmentDefinition.k8s.cni.cncf.io vm100`.
+
[console]
----
    apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
    kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
    metadata:
      annotations:
        network.harvesterhci.io/route: '{"mode":"auto","serverIPAddr":"","cidr":"","gateway":""}'
      creationTimestamp: '2025-04-25T10:21:01Z'
      finalizers:
        - wrangler.cattle.io/harvester-network-nad-controller
        - wrangler.cattle.io/harvester-network-manager-nad-controller
      generation: 1
      labels:
        network.harvesterhci.io/clusternetwork: cn-data
        network.harvesterhci.io/ready: 'true'
        network.harvesterhci.io/type: L2VlanNetwork
        network.harvesterhci.io/vlan-id: '100'
      name: vm100
      namespace: default
      resourceVersion: '1525839'
      uid: 8dacf415-ce90-414a-a11b-48f041d46b42
    spec:
      config: >-
        {"cniVersion":"0.3.1","name":"vm100","type":"bridge","bridge":"cn-data-br","promiscMode":true,"vlan":100,"ipam":{},"mtu":1500}
----

. Start all virtual machines that are attached to the target cluster network.
+
The virtual machines should have inherited the new MTU. You can verify this in the guest operating system using the Linux `ip link` command and `ping 8.8.8.8 -s 8800` command.

. Verify that the virtual machine workloads are running normally.

[IMPORTANT]
====
{harvester-product-name} cannot be held responsible for any damage or loss of data that may occur when the MTU value is changed.
====
