versions/v1.6/modules/en/pages/integrations/rancher/virtualization-management.adoc, before:

= Virtualization Management

With Rancher's virtualization management capabilities, you can import and manage multiple Harvester clusters. It provides a solution that unifies virtualization and container management from a single pane of glass.

Additionally, Harvester leverages Rancher's existing capabilities, such as https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/pages-for-subheaders/authentication-config[authentication] and https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/pages-for-subheaders/manage-role-based-access-control-rbac[RBAC control], to provide full multi-tenancy support.

Please refer to the https://www.suse.com/suse-harvester/support-matrix/all-supported-versions/[Harvester & Rancher Support Matrix] to find a desired Rancher version. You can use one of the following guides to deploy and provision Rancher and a Kubernetes cluster with the provider of your choice:

* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/pages-for-subheaders/deploy-rancher-manager[AWS] (uses Terraform)
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/aws-marketplace[AWS Marketplace] (uses Amazon EKS)
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/azure[Azure] (uses Terraform)
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/digitalocean[DigitalOcean] (uses Terraform)
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/gcp[GCP] (uses Terraform)
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/hetzner-cloud[Hetzner Cloud] (uses Terraform)
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/vagrant[Vagrant]
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/equinix-metal[Equinix Metal]
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/outscale-qs[Outscale] (uses Terraform)
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/helm-cli[Manual Install]

== Importing Harvester cluster

[tabs]
======
UI::
+
--
. Check and prepare the container image.
+
To facilitate the importing task, a new pod named `+cattle-cluster-agent-***+` will be created on the Harvester cluster. The container image used for this pod depends on the version of your Rancher server (for example, the image `rancher/rancher-agent:v2.7.9` is used if you are running Rancher v2.7.9). Moreover, this dynamic image is not packed into the Harvester ISO and is instead pulled from the repository during importing.
+
If your Harvester cluster is not directly accessible from the internet, perform one of the following actions:

 ** Configure a xref:../installation-setup/config/settings.adoc#_containerd_registry[private registry] for the cluster and add the image. Harvester will automatically pull the image from this registry.
 ** If you configured an xref:../installation-setup/airgap.adoc#_configure_an_http_proxy_in_harvester_settings[HTTP proxy] for accessing external services, verify that it is working as expected. The xref:../installation-setup/config/update-configuration.adoc#_dns_servers[DNS servers] that you specified in the Harvester configuration should be able to resolve the domain name `docker.io`.
 ** Download the image using the command `docker pull rancher/rancher-agent:v2.7.9 && docker save -o rancher-agent.tar rancher/rancher-agent:v2.7.9`. Next, create a copy of the downloaded image in each cluster node, and then import the image to containerd using the command `sudo -i ctr --namespace k8s.io image import rancher-agent.tar`. Finally, run `sudo -i crictl image ls | grep "rancher-agent"` on each node to ensure that the image is ready.

. Once the Rancher server is up and running, log in and click the hamburger menu and choose the *Virtualization Management* tab. Select *Import Existing* to import the downstream Harvester cluster into the Rancher server.
image:rancher/vm-menu.png[]
. Specify the `Cluster Name` and click *Create*. You will then see the registration guide; please open the dashboard of the target Harvester cluster and follow the guide accordingly.
image:rancher/harv-importing.png[]
. Once the agent node is ready, you should be able to view and access the imported Harvester cluster from the Rancher server and manage your VMs accordingly.
image:rancher/harv-cluster-view.png[]
+
Whenever the agent node becomes stuck, run the command `+kubectl get pod cattle-cluster-agent-*** -n cattle-system -oyaml+` on the Harvester cluster. If the following message is displayed, check the information in step 1, kill this pod and then a new pod will be created automatically to restart the importing process.
+
[,yaml]
----
  ...
  state:
    waiting:
      message: Back-off pulling image "rancher/rancher-agent:v2.7.9"
      reason: ImagePullBackOff
  ...
----
+
. From the Harvester UI, you can click the hamburger menu to navigate back to the Rancher multi-cluster management page.
+
image:rancher/harv-go-back.png[]
--

API::
+
--
. In the Rancher Kubernetes cluster, create a new `Cluster` resource.
+
Example:
+
[,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: provisioning.cattle.io/v1
  kind: Cluster
  metadata:
    name: harvester-cluster-name
    namespace: fleet-default
    labels:
      provider.cattle.io: harvester
    annotations:
      field.cattle.io/description: Human readable cluster description
  spec:
    agentEnvVars: []
----
+
. Once the status of the `Cluster` resource is updated, obtain the cluster ID (format: `c-m-foobar`) from the `.status.clusterName` property.
. Create a `ClusterRegistrationToken` using the cluster ID in the namespace with the same name as the cluster ID. You must specify the cluster ID in the token's `.spec.clusterName` field.
+
Example:
+
[,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: management.cattle.io/v3
  kind: ClusterRegistrationToken
  metadata:
    name: default-token
    namespace: c-m-foobar
  spec:
    clusterName: c-m-foobar
----
+
. Once the status of the `ClusterRegistrationToken` is updated, obtain the value of the token's `.status.manifestUrl` property.
. In the Harvester cluster, patch the setting `cluster-registration-url` and specify the URL obtained from the cluster registration token's `.status.manifestUrl` property in the `value` field.
+
Example:
+
[,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
  kind: Setting
  metadata:
    name: cluster-registration-url
  value: https://rancher.example.com/v3/import/abcdefghijkl1234567890-c-m-foobar.yaml
----
--
======

== Multi-Tenancy

In Harvester, we have leveraged the existing Rancher https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/pages-for-subheaders/manage-role-based-access-control-rbac[RBAC authorization] such that users can view and manage a set of resources based on their cluster and project role permissions.

Within Rancher, each person authenticates as a user, which is a login that grants a user access to Rancher. As mentioned in https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/pages-for-subheaders/authentication-config[Authentication], users can either be local or external.

Once the user logs into Rancher, their authorization, also known as access rights, is determined by global permissions and cluster and project roles.

* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/how-to-guides/new-user-guides/authentication-permissions-and-global-configuration/manage-role-based-access-control-rbac/global-permissions[*Global Permissions*]:
 ** Define user authorization outside the scope of any particular cluster.
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/how-to-guides/new-user-guides/authentication-permissions-and-global-configuration/manage-role-based-access-control-rbac/cluster-and-project-roles[*Cluster and Project Roles*]:
 ** Define user authorization inside the specific cluster or project where users are assigned the role.

Both global permissions and cluster and project roles are implemented on top of https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/[Kubernetes RBAC]. Therefore, enforcement of permissions and roles is performed by Kubernetes.

* A cluster owner has full control over the cluster and all resources inside it, e.g., hosts, VMs, volumes, images, networks, backups, and settings.
* A project user can be assigned to a specific project with permission to manage the resources inside the project.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Managing user access using the built-in role templates and project-scoped RBAC is strongly recommended.

{harvester-product-name} implements its own RBAC model on top of Kubernetes and KubeVirt, integrating with Rancher-style Projects and multi-tenancy logic. During upgrades or reconfiguration, custom `RoleBindings` referencing only `kubevirt.io` roles may be lost, reset, or become inconsistent with {harvester-product-name}'s internal state.
====

=== Multi-Tenancy Example

The following example provides a good explanation of how the multi-tenant feature works:

. First, add new users via the Rancher `Users & Authentication` page. Then click `Create` to add two new separated users, such as `project-owner` and `project-readonly` respectively.
 ** A `project-owner` is a user with permission to manage a list of resources of a particular project, e.g., the default project.
 ** A `project-readonly` is a user with read-only permission of a particular project, e.g., the default project.
 image:rancher/create-user.png[]
. Click one of the imported Harvester clusters after navigating to the Harvester UI.
 ** Click the `Projects/Namespaces` tab.
 ** Select a project such as `default` and click the `Edit Config` menu to assign the users to this project with appropriate permissions. For example, the `project-owner` user will be assigned the project owner role.
image:rancher/add-member.png[]
. Continue to add the `project-readonly` user to the same project with read-only permissions and click *Save*.
image:rancher/added-user.png[]
. Open an incognito browser and log in as `project-owner`.
. After logging in as the `project-owner` user, click the *Virtualization Management* tab. There you should be able to view the cluster and project to which you have been assigned.
. Click the *Images* tab to view a list of images previously uploaded to the `harvester-public` namespace. You can also upload your own image if needed.
. Create a VM with one of the images that you have uploaded.
. Log in with another user, e.g., `project-readonly`, and this user will only have the read permission of the assigned project.

[NOTE]
====
The `harvester-public` namespace is a predefined namespace accessible to all users assigned to this cluster.
====

== Delete Imported Harvester Cluster

Users can delete the imported Harvester cluster from the Rancher UI via menu:Virtualization Management[Harvester Clusters]. Select the cluster you want to remove and click the *Delete* button to delete the imported Harvester cluster.

You will also need to reset the `cluster-registration-url` setting on the associated Harvester cluster to clean up the Rancher cluster agent.

image::rancher/delete-harvester-cluster.png[delete-cluster]

[CAUTION]
====
Please do not run the `+kubectl delete -f ...+` command to delete the imported Harvester cluster as it will remove the entire `cattle-system` namespace which is required of the Harvester cluster.
====

Commit message:

Add text per PR 785 (Upgrading imported clusters)
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.6/modules/en/pages/integrations/rancher/virtualization-management.adoc, after:

= Virtualization Management

With Rancher's virtualization management capabilities, you can import and manage multiple Harvester clusters. It provides a solution that unifies virtualization and container management from a single pane of glass.

Additionally, Harvester leverages Rancher's existing capabilities, such as https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/pages-for-subheaders/authentication-config[authentication] and https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/pages-for-subheaders/manage-role-based-access-control-rbac[RBAC control], to provide full multi-tenancy support.

Please refer to the https://www.suse.com/suse-harvester/support-matrix/all-supported-versions/[Harvester & Rancher Support Matrix] to find a desired Rancher version. You can use one of the following guides to deploy and provision Rancher and a Kubernetes cluster with the provider of your choice:

* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/pages-for-subheaders/deploy-rancher-manager[AWS] (uses Terraform)
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/aws-marketplace[AWS Marketplace] (uses Amazon EKS)
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/azure[Azure] (uses Terraform)
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/digitalocean[DigitalOcean] (uses Terraform)
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/gcp[GCP] (uses Terraform)
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/hetzner-cloud[Hetzner Cloud] (uses Terraform)
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/vagrant[Vagrant]
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/equinix-metal[Equinix Metal]
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/outscale-qs[Outscale] (uses Terraform)
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/getting-started/quick-start-guides/deploy-rancher-manager/helm-cli[Manual Install]

== Importing Harvester cluster

[tabs]
======
UI::
+
--
. Check and prepare the container image.
+
To facilitate the importing task, a new pod named `+cattle-cluster-agent-***+` will be created on the Harvester cluster. The container image used for this pod depends on the version of your Rancher server (for example, the image `rancher/rancher-agent:v2.7.9` is used if you are running Rancher v2.7.9). Moreover, this dynamic image is not packed into the Harvester ISO and is instead pulled from the repository during importing.
+
If your Harvester cluster is not directly accessible from the internet, perform one of the following actions:

 ** Configure a xref:../installation-setup/config/settings.adoc#_containerd_registry[private registry] for the cluster and add the image. Harvester will automatically pull the image from this registry.
 ** If you configured an xref:../installation-setup/airgap.adoc#_configure_an_http_proxy_in_harvester_settings[HTTP proxy] for accessing external services, verify that it is working as expected. The xref:../installation-setup/config/update-configuration.adoc#_dns_servers[DNS servers] that you specified in the Harvester configuration should be able to resolve the domain name `docker.io`.
 ** Download the image using the command `docker pull rancher/rancher-agent:v2.7.9 && docker save -o rancher-agent.tar rancher/rancher-agent:v2.7.9`. Next, create a copy of the downloaded image in each cluster node, and then import the image to containerd using the command `sudo -i ctr --namespace k8s.io image import rancher-agent.tar`. Finally, run `sudo -i crictl image ls | grep "rancher-agent"` on each node to ensure that the image is ready.

. Once the Rancher server is up and running, log in and click the hamburger menu and choose the *Virtualization Management* tab. Select *Import Existing* to import the downstream Harvester cluster into the Rancher server.
image:rancher/vm-menu.png[]
. Specify the `Cluster Name` and click *Create*. You will then see the registration guide; please open the dashboard of the target Harvester cluster and follow the guide accordingly.
image:rancher/harv-importing.png[]
. Once the agent node is ready, you should be able to view and access the imported Harvester cluster from the Rancher server and manage your VMs accordingly.
image:rancher/harv-cluster-view.png[]
+
Whenever the agent node becomes stuck, run the command `+kubectl get pod cattle-cluster-agent-*** -n cattle-system -oyaml+` on the Harvester cluster. If the following message is displayed, check the information in step 1, kill this pod and then a new pod will be created automatically to restart the importing process.
+
[,yaml]
----
  ...
  state:
    waiting:
      message: Back-off pulling image "rancher/rancher-agent:v2.7.9"
      reason: ImagePullBackOff
  ...
----
+
. From the Harvester UI, you can click the hamburger menu to navigate back to the Rancher multi-cluster management page.
+
image:rancher/harv-go-back.png[]
--

API::
+
--
. In the Rancher Kubernetes cluster, create a new `Cluster` resource.
+
Example:
+
[,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: provisioning.cattle.io/v1
  kind: Cluster
  metadata:
    name: harvester-cluster-name
    namespace: fleet-default
    labels:
      provider.cattle.io: harvester
    annotations:
      field.cattle.io/description: Human readable cluster description
  spec:
    agentEnvVars: []
----
+
. Once the status of the `Cluster` resource is updated, obtain the cluster ID (format: `c-m-foobar`) from the `.status.clusterName` property.
. Create a `ClusterRegistrationToken` using the cluster ID in the namespace with the same name as the cluster ID. You must specify the cluster ID in the token's `.spec.clusterName` field.
+
Example:
+
[,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: management.cattle.io/v3
  kind: ClusterRegistrationToken
  metadata:
    name: default-token
    namespace: c-m-foobar
  spec:
    clusterName: c-m-foobar
----
+
. Once the status of the `ClusterRegistrationToken` is updated, obtain the value of the token's `.status.manifestUrl` property.
. In the Harvester cluster, patch the setting `cluster-registration-url` and specify the URL obtained from the cluster registration token's `.status.manifestUrl` property in the `value` field.
+
Example:
+
[,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
  kind: Setting
  metadata:
    name: cluster-registration-url
  value: https://rancher.example.com/v3/import/abcdefghijkl1234567890-c-m-foobar.yaml
----
--
======

=== Upgrades

To upgrade an imported {harvester-product-name} cluster, you must upgrade {rancher-short-name}, the Harvester UI Extension, and {harvester-product-name} in a specific order. The xref:./harvester-ui-extension.adoc[Harvester UI Extension] is required to access the {harvester-product-name} UI in {rancher-short-name} v2.10.x and later versions.

. Check the xref:./harvester-ui-extension.adoc#_support_matrix[support matrix] to determine the {rancher-short-name} and Harvester UI Extension versions that match the {harvester-product-name} cluster.

. Upgrade https://documentation.suse.com/cloudnative/rancher-manager/v2.11/en/installation-and-upgrade/upgrades.html[{rancher-short-name}].

. Upgrade the xref:./harvester-ui-extension.adoc#_upgrades[Harvester UI Extension].
+
For information about upgrading the extension in an air-gapped environment, see xref:../../installation-setup/airgap.adoc#_harvester_ui_extension_with_rancher_integration[Harvester UI extension with {rancher-short-name} Integration].

. Upgrade xref:../../upgrades/upgrades.adoc[{harvester-product-name}].
+
[CAUTION]
====
Features in {harvester-product-name} v1.5.0 and later versions are implemented in the Harvester UI Extension. If you do not upgrade {rancher-short-name} and the Harvester UI Extension, these features may not be available.
====

== Multi-Tenancy

In Harvester, we have leveraged the existing Rancher https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/pages-for-subheaders/manage-role-based-access-control-rbac[RBAC authorization] such that users can view and manage a set of resources based on their cluster and project role permissions.

Within Rancher, each person authenticates as a user, which is a login that grants a user access to Rancher. As mentioned in https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/pages-for-subheaders/authentication-config[Authentication], users can either be local or external.

Once the user logs into Rancher, their authorization, also known as access rights, is determined by global permissions and cluster and project roles.

* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/how-to-guides/new-user-guides/authentication-permissions-and-global-configuration/manage-role-based-access-control-rbac/global-permissions[*Global Permissions*]:
 ** Define user authorization outside the scope of any particular cluster.
* https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.7/how-to-guides/new-user-guides/authentication-permissions-and-global-configuration/manage-role-based-access-control-rbac/cluster-and-project-roles[*Cluster and Project Roles*]:
 ** Define user authorization inside the specific cluster or project where users are assigned the role.

Both global permissions and cluster and project roles are implemented on top of https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/[Kubernetes RBAC]. Therefore, enforcement of permissions and roles is performed by Kubernetes.

* A cluster owner has full control over the cluster and all resources inside it, e.g., hosts, VMs, volumes, images, networks, backups, and settings.
* A project user can be assigned to a specific project with permission to manage the resources inside the project.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Managing user access using the built-in role templates and project-scoped RBAC is strongly recommended.

{harvester-product-name} implements its own RBAC model on top of Kubernetes and KubeVirt, integrating with Rancher-style Projects and multi-tenancy logic. During upgrades or reconfiguration, custom `RoleBindings` referencing only `kubevirt.io` roles may be lost, reset, or become inconsistent with {harvester-product-name}'s internal state.
====

=== Multi-Tenancy Example

The following example provides a good explanation of how the multi-tenant feature works:

. First, add new users via the Rancher `Users & Authentication` page. Then click `Create` to add two new separated users, such as `project-owner` and `project-readonly` respectively.
 ** A `project-owner` is a user with permission to manage a list of resources of a particular project, e.g., the default project.
 ** A `project-readonly` is a user with read-only permission of a particular project, e.g., the default project.
 image:rancher/create-user.png[]
. Click one of the imported Harvester clusters after navigating to the Harvester UI.
 ** Click the `Projects/Namespaces` tab.
 ** Select a project such as `default` and click the `Edit Config` menu to assign the users to this project with appropriate permissions. For example, the `project-owner` user will be assigned the project owner role.
image:rancher/add-member.png[]
. Continue to add the `project-readonly` user to the same project with read-only permissions and click *Save*.
image:rancher/added-user.png[]
. Open an incognito browser and log in as `project-owner`.
. After logging in as the `project-owner` user, click the *Virtualization Management* tab. There you should be able to view the cluster and project to which you have been assigned.
. Click the *Images* tab to view a list of images previously uploaded to the `harvester-public` namespace. You can also upload your own image if needed.
. Create a VM with one of the images that you have uploaded.
. Log in with another user, e.g., `project-readonly`, and this user will only have the read permission of the assigned project.

[NOTE]
====
The `harvester-public` namespace is a predefined namespace accessible to all users assigned to this cluster.
====

== Delete Imported Harvester Cluster

Users can delete the imported Harvester cluster from the Rancher UI via menu:Virtualization Management[Harvester Clusters]. Select the cluster you want to remove and click the *Delete* button to delete the imported Harvester cluster.

You will also need to reset the `cluster-registration-url` setting on the associated Harvester cluster to clean up the Rancher cluster agent.

image::rancher/delete-harvester-cluster.png[delete-cluster]

[CAUTION]
====
Please do not run the `+kubectl delete -f ...+` command to delete the imported Harvester cluster as it will remove the entire `cattle-system` namespace which is required of the Harvester cluster.
====
