versions/v1.5/modules/en/pages/storage/volumes/volume-security.adoc, before:

= Volume Security

Harvester allows you to encrypt and decrypt virtual machine images. The encryption mechanism utilizes the Linux kernel module dm_crypt and the command-line utility cryptsetup.

== Prerequisites

Prepare the following resources:

* Secret: A Kubernetes secret is used as the passphrase of dm_crypt. You must specify the value of the `CRYPTO_KEY_VALUE` field. All other fields are fixed.
+
image::vm/create-encryption-used-secret.png[]
+
Example of a secret:
+
[,YAML]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: encryption
  namespace: default
data:
  CRYPTO_KEY_CIPHER: aes-xts-plain64
  CRYPTO_KEY_HASH: sha256
  CRYPTO_KEY_PROVIDER: secret
  CRYPTO_KEY_SIZE: 256
  CRYPTO_KEY_VALUE: "Your encryption passphrase"
  CRYPTO_PBKDF: argon2i
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You can create a secret in the system namespace using kubectl or the Harvester UI (*Edit as YAML* feature). Resources in the system namespace are not displayed on the Harvester UI *Secrets* screen.
====
+
* StorageClass: Images are encrypted using Longhorn, so required fields must be passed to the Longhorn CSI Driver. You can specify the encryption secret when creating a StorageClass. For more information, see xref:../../virtual-machines/vm-images/upload-image.adoc#image-storageclass[Image StorageClass].
+
image::vm/create-storage-class.png[]
+
Example of a StorageClass:
+
[,YAML]
----
allowVolumeExpansion: true
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: encryption
parameters:
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-name: encryption
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-namespace: default
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: encryption
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: default
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: encryption
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: default
  encrypted: "true"
  migratable: "true"
  numberOfReplicas: "3"
  staleReplicaTimeout: "2880"
provisioner: driver.longhorn.io
reclaimPolicy: Delete
volumeBindingMode: Immediate
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You can create a secret in the system namespace using the Harvester UI (*Edit as YAML* feature) and kubectl. Resources in the system namespace are not displayed on the Harvester UI *Secrets* screen.
====

== Encrypted Volumes

You can create an encrypted volume using an encrypted StorageClass on the following UI locations:

* *Volumes: Create* screen
+
image::volume/volume-security-create-empty-volume.png[create-empty-volume]
+
* *Volumes* tab on the *Virtual Machine: Create* screen
+
image::volume/volume-security-create-empty-volume-in-vm.png[create-empty-volume-in-vm]

== Advanced Usage with Rancher Integration

The secret is an unencrypted Base64-encoded string. To keep the secret safe, you can use projects and namespaces to isolate permissions. For more information, see xref:../../integrations/rancher/virtualization-management.adoc#multi-tenancy[Multi-Tenancy].

== Limitations

You cannot perform the following actions:

* Export a new volume from an encrypted volume
* Restore an encrypted volume to an unencrypted volume
* Restore an unencrypted volume to an encrypted volume

Commit message:

Add text for PR682 (volume encryption options)
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.5/modules/en/pages/storage/volumes/volume-security.adoc, after:

= Volume Security

Harvester allows you to encrypt and decrypt virtual machine images. The encryption mechanism utilizes the Linux kernel module dm_crypt and the command-line utility cryptsetup.

== Prerequisites

Prepare the following resources:

* Secret: A Kubernetes secret is used as the passphrase of dm_crypt. You must specify the value of the `CRYPTO_KEY_VALUE` field. All other fields are fixed.
+
image::vm/create-encryption-used-secret.png[]
+
Example of a secret:
+
[,YAML]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: encryption
  namespace: default
data:
  CRYPTO_KEY_CIPHER: aes-xts-plain64
  CRYPTO_KEY_HASH: sha256
  CRYPTO_KEY_PROVIDER: secret
  CRYPTO_KEY_SIZE: 256
  CRYPTO_KEY_VALUE: "Your encryption passphrase"
  CRYPTO_PBKDF: argon2i
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The example contains the default YAML code for Kubernetes secrets. Aside from this, you can use https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Dm-crypt/Device_encryption#Encryption_options_for_LUKS_mode[encryption options for LUKS mode], which is a cryptsetup operating mode. Harvester v1.4.1 and later versions support these options, but you must verify that these are supported by your nodes.

|===
| Option | Possible Values

| CRYPTO_KEY_CIPHER
| aes-xts-plain, aes-xts-plain64, aes-cbc-plain, aes-cbc-plain64, aes-cbc-essiv:sha256

| CRYPTO_KEY_HASH
| sha256, sha384, sha512

| CRYPTO_KEY_SIZE
| 256, 384, 512

| CRYPTO_PBKDF
| argon2i, argon2id, pbkdf2
|===

You can create a secret in the system namespace using kubectl or the Harvester UI (*Edit as YAML* feature). Resources in the system namespace are not displayed on the Harvester UI *Secrets* screen.
====
+
* StorageClass: Images are encrypted using Longhorn, so required fields must be passed to the Longhorn CSI Driver. You can specify the encryption secret when creating a StorageClass. For more information, see xref:../../virtual-machines/vm-images/upload-image.adoc#image-storageclass[Image StorageClass].
+
image::vm/create-storage-class.png[]
+
Example of a StorageClass:
+
[,YAML]
----
allowVolumeExpansion: true
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: encryption
parameters:
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-name: encryption
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-namespace: default
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: encryption
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: default
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: encryption
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: default
  encrypted: "true"
  migratable: "true"
  numberOfReplicas: "3"
  staleReplicaTimeout: "2880"
provisioner: driver.longhorn.io
reclaimPolicy: Delete
volumeBindingMode: Immediate
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You can create a secret in the system namespace using the Harvester UI (*Edit as YAML* feature) and kubectl. Resources in the system namespace are not displayed on the Harvester UI *Secrets* screen.
====

== Encrypted Volumes

You can create an encrypted volume using an encrypted StorageClass on the following UI locations:

* *Volumes: Create* screen
+
image::volume/volume-security-create-empty-volume.png[create-empty-volume]
+
* *Volumes* tab on the *Virtual Machine: Create* screen
+
image::volume/volume-security-create-empty-volume-in-vm.png[create-empty-volume-in-vm]

== Advanced Usage with Rancher Integration

The secret is an unencrypted Base64-encoded string. To keep the secret safe, you can use projects and namespaces to isolate permissions. For more information, see xref:../../integrations/rancher/virtualization-management.adoc#multi-tenancy[Multi-Tenancy].

== Limitations

You cannot perform the following actions:

* Export a new volume from an encrypted volume
* Restore an encrypted volume to an unencrypted volume
* Restore an unencrypted volume to an encrypted volume
