versions/v1.4/modules/en/pages/upgrades/v1-4-1-to-v1-4-2.adoc, before:

= Upgrade from v1.4.1 to v1.4.2

== General information

An *Upgrade* button appears on the *Dashboard* screen whenever a new {harvester-product-name} version that you can upgrade to becomes available. For more information, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_start_an_upgrade[Start an upgrade].

For air-gapped environments, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_prepare_an_air_gapped_upgrade[Prepare an air-gapped upgrade].

=== Update Harvester UI Extension on Rancher v2.10.1

To import {harvester-product-name} v1.4.2 clusters on Rancher v2.10.1, you must use **v1.0.3** of the Rancher UI extension for {harvester-product-name}.

. On the Rancher UI, go to *local -> Apps -> Repositories*.

. Locate the repository named *harvester*, and then select *⋮ -> Refresh*.
+
This repository has the following properties:
+
* URL: **https://github.com/harvester/harvester-ui-extension**
* Branch: **gh-pages**
+
image::upgrade/rancher-2.10.1-repository-page.png[]

. Go to the *Extensions* screen.

. Locate the extension named *Harvester*, and then click *Update*.

. Select version *1.0.3*, and then click *Update*.
+
image::upgrade/update-harvester-ui-extension-modal.png[]

. Allow some time for the extension to be updated, and then refresh the screen.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The Rancher UI displays an error message after the extension is updated. The error message disappears when you refresh the screen.

This issue, which exists in Rancher v2.10.0 and v2.10.1, will be fixed in v2.10.2. 
====

Related issues: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7234[#7234], https://github.com/rancher/capi-ui-extension/issues/107[#107]

=== Virtual Machine Backup Compatibility

You may encounter certain limitations when creating and restoring xref:../storage/csidriver.adoc#_virtual_machine_backup_compatibility[backups that involve external storage].

== Known Issues

=== 1. Upgrade Stuck in "Pre-drained" State

The upgrade process may become stuck in the "Pre-drained" state. Kubernetes is supposed to drain the workload on the node, but some factors may cause the process to stall.

image::upgrade/3730-stuck.png[]

A possible cause is processes related to orphan engines of the Longhorn Instance Manager. To determine if this applies to your situation, perform the following steps:

. Check the name of the `instance-manager` pod on the stuck node.
+
Example:
+
The stuck node is `harvester-node-1`, and the name of the Instance Manager pod is `instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a`.
+
[,shell]
----
$ kubectl get pods -n longhorn-system --field-selector spec.nodeName=harvester-node-1 | grep instance-manager
instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a          1/1     Running   0              3d8h
----

. Check the Longhorn Manager logs for informational messages.
+
Example:
+
[,shell]
----
$ kubectl -n longhorn-system logs daemonsets/longhorn-manager
...
time="2025-01-14T00:00:01Z" level=info msg="Node instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a is marked unschedulable but removing harvester-node-1 PDB is blocked: some volumes are still attached InstanceEngines count 1 pvc-9ae0e9a5-a630-4f0c-98cc-b14893c74f9e-e-0" func="controller.(*InstanceManagerController).syncInstanceManagerPDB" file="instance_manager_controller.go:823" controller=longhorn-instance-manager node=harvester-node-1
----
+
The `instance-manager` pod cannot be drained because of the engine `pvc-9ae0e9a5-a630-4f0c-98cc-b14893c74f9e-e-0`.

. Check if the engine is still running on the stuck node.
+
Example:
+
[,shell]
----
$ kubectl -n longhorn-system get engines.longhorn.io pvc-9ae0e9a5-a630-4f0c-98cc-b14893c74f9e-e-0 -o jsonpath='{"Current state: "}{.status.currentState}{"\nNode ID: "}{.spec.nodeID}{"\n"}'
Current state: stopped
Node ID:
----
+
The issue likely exists if the output shows that the engine is either not running or not found.

. Check if all volumes are healthy.
+
[,shell]
----
kubectl get volumes -n longhorn-system -o yaml | yq '.items[] | select(.status.state == "attached")| .status.robustness'
----
+
All volumes must be marked `healthy`. If this is not the case, report the issue.

. Remove the `instance-manager` pod's PodDisruptionBudget (PDB).
+
Example:
+
[,shell]
----
kubectl delete pdb instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a -n longhorn-system
----

Related issues: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7366[#7366], https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6764[#6764]

=== 2. High CPU Usage

High CPU usage may occur because of the `backup-target` setting's `refreshIntervalInSeconds` field. If the field is left empty or is set to `0`, {harvester-product-name} constantly refreshes the backup target, resulting in high CPU usage.

To fix the issue, update the value of `refreshIntervalInSeconds` to a larger number (for example, `60`) using the command `kubectl edit setting backup-target`.

Example:

[,shell]
----
value: '{"type":"nfs","endpoint":"nfs://longhorn-test-nfs-svc.default:/opt/backupstore", "refreshIntervalInSeconds": 60}'
----

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7885[#7885]

=== 3. Upgrade Restarts Unexpectedly After Clicking "Dismiss it" Button

When you use Rancher to upgrade {harvester-product-name}, the Rancher UI displays a dialog with a button labeled "Dismiss it". Clicking this button may result in the following issues:

* The `status` section of the `harvesterhci.io/v1beta1/upgrade` CR is cleared, causing the loss of all important information about the upgrade.
* The upgrade process restarts unexpectedly.

This issue affects Rancher v2.10.x, which uses v1.0.2, v1.0.3, and v1.0.4 of the xref:../integrations/rancher/harvester-ui-extension.adoc#_support_matrix[Harvester UI Extension]. All {harvester-product-name} UI versions are not affected. The issue is fixed in Harvester UI Extension v1.0.5 and v1.5.0.

To avoid this issue, perform either of the following actions:

* Use the {harvester-product-name} UI for upgrades. Clicking the "Dismiss it" button on the {harvester-product-name} UI does not result in unexpected behavior.
* Instead of clicking the button on the Rancher UI, run the following command against the cluster:
+
[,shell]
----
kubectl -n harvester-system label upgrades -l harvesterhci.io/latestUpgrade=true harvesterhci.io/read-message=true
----

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7791[#7791]

Commit message:

Add and edit text per PR 813 (Longhorn issue #11158)
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.4/modules/en/pages/upgrades/v1-4-1-to-v1-4-2.adoc, after:

= Upgrade from v1.4.1 to v1.4.2

== General information

An *Upgrade* button appears on the *Dashboard* screen whenever a new {harvester-product-name} version that you can upgrade to becomes available. For more information, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_start_an_upgrade[Start an upgrade].

For air-gapped environments, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_prepare_an_air_gapped_upgrade[Prepare an air-gapped upgrade].

=== Update Harvester UI Extension on {rancher-short-name} v2.10.1

To import {harvester-product-name} v1.4.2 clusters on {rancher-short-name} v2.10.1, you must use **v1.0.3** of the {rancher-short-name} UI extension for {harvester-product-name}.

. On the {rancher-short-name} UI, go to *local -> Apps -> Repositories*.

. Locate the repository named *harvester*, and then select *⋮ -> Refresh*.
+
This repository has the following properties:
+
* URL: **https://github.com/harvester/harvester-ui-extension**
* Branch: **gh-pages**
+
image::upgrade/rancher-2.10.1-repository-page.png[]

. Go to the *Extensions* screen.

. Locate the extension named *Harvester*, and then click *Update*.

. Select version *1.0.3*, and then click *Update*.
+
image::upgrade/update-harvester-ui-extension-modal.png[]

. Allow some time for the extension to be updated, and then refresh the screen.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The {rancher-short-name} UI displays an error message after the extension is updated. The error message disappears when you refresh the screen.

This issue, which exists in {rancher-short-name} v2.10.0 and v2.10.1, will be fixed in v2.10.2. 
====

Related issues: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7234[#7234], https://github.com/rancher/capi-ui-extension/issues/107[#107]

== Virtual machine backup compatibility

You may encounter certain limitations when creating and restoring xref:../storage/csidriver.adoc#_virtual_machine_backup_compatibility[backups that involve external storage].

== Known issues

=== 1. Upgrade stuck in "Pre-drained" state

The upgrade process may become stuck in the "Pre-drained" state. Kubernetes is supposed to drain the workload on the node, but some factors may cause the process to stall.

image::upgrade/3730-stuck.png[]

A possible cause is processes related to orphan engines of the Longhorn Instance Manager. To determine if this applies to your situation, perform the following steps:

. Check the name of the `instance-manager` pod on the stuck node.
+
Example:
+
The stuck node is `harvester-node-1`, and the name of the Instance Manager pod is `instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a`.
+
[,shell]
----
$ kubectl get pods -n longhorn-system --field-selector spec.nodeName=harvester-node-1 | grep instance-manager
instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a          1/1     Running   0              3d8h
----

. Check the Longhorn Manager logs for informational messages.
+
Example:
+
[,shell]
----
$ kubectl -n longhorn-system logs daemonsets/longhorn-manager
...
time="2025-01-14T00:00:01Z" level=info msg="Node instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a is marked unschedulable but removing harvester-node-1 PDB is blocked: some volumes are still attached InstanceEngines count 1 pvc-9ae0e9a5-a630-4f0c-98cc-b14893c74f9e-e-0" func="controller.(*InstanceManagerController).syncInstanceManagerPDB" file="instance_manager_controller.go:823" controller=longhorn-instance-manager node=harvester-node-1
----
+
The `instance-manager` pod cannot be drained because of the engine `pvc-9ae0e9a5-a630-4f0c-98cc-b14893c74f9e-e-0`.

. Check if the engine is still running on the stuck node.
+
Example:
+
[,shell]
----
$ kubectl -n longhorn-system get engines.longhorn.io pvc-9ae0e9a5-a630-4f0c-98cc-b14893c74f9e-e-0 -o jsonpath='{"Current state: "}{.status.currentState}{"\nNode ID: "}{.spec.nodeID}{"\n"}'
Current state: stopped
Node ID:
----
+
The issue likely exists if the output shows that the engine is either not running or not found.

. Check if all volumes are healthy.
+
[,shell]
----
kubectl get volumes -n longhorn-system -o yaml | yq '.items[] | select(.status.state == "attached")| .status.robustness'
----
+
All volumes must be marked `healthy`. If this is not the case, report the issue.

. Remove the `instance-manager` pod's PodDisruptionBudget (PDB).
+
Example:
+
[,shell]
----
kubectl delete pdb instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a -n longhorn-system
----

Related issues: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7366[#7366] and https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6764[#6764]

=== 2. High CPU usage

High CPU usage may occur because of the `backup-target` setting's `refreshIntervalInSeconds` field. If the field is left empty or is set to `0`, {harvester-product-name} constantly refreshes the backup target, resulting in high CPU usage.

To fix the issue, update the value of `refreshIntervalInSeconds` to a larger number (for example, `60`) using the command `kubectl edit setting backup-target`.

Example:

[,shell]
----
value: '{"type":"nfs","endpoint":"nfs://longhorn-test-nfs-svc.default:/opt/backupstore", "refreshIntervalInSeconds": 60}'
----

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7885[#7885]

=== 3. Upgrade restarts unexpectedly after the "Dismiss it" button is clicked

When you use {rancher-short-name} to upgrade {harvester-product-name}, the {rancher-short-name} UI displays a dialog with a button labeled "Dismiss it". Clicking this button may result in the following issues:

* The `status` section of the `harvesterhci.io/v1beta1/upgrade` CR is cleared, causing the loss of all important information about the upgrade.
* The upgrade process restarts unexpectedly.

This issue affects {rancher-short-name} v2.10.x, which uses v1.0.2, v1.0.3, and v1.0.4 of the xref:../integrations/rancher/harvester-ui-extension.adoc#_support_matrix[Harvester UI Extension]. All {harvester-product-name} UI versions are not affected. The issue is fixed in Harvester UI Extension v1.0.5 and v1.5.0.

To avoid this issue, perform either of the following actions:

* Use the {harvester-product-name} UI for upgrades. Clicking the "Dismiss it" button on the {harvester-product-name} UI does not result in unexpected behavior.
* Instead of clicking the button on the {rancher-short-name} UI, run the following command against the cluster:
+
[,shell]
----
kubectl -n harvester-system label upgrades -l harvesterhci.io/latestUpgrade=true harvesterhci.io/read-message=true
----

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7791[#7791]

=== 4. Virtual machines that use migratable RWX volumes restart unexpectedly

Virtual machines that use migratable xref:integrations/rancher/csi-driver.adoc#_rwx_volumes_support[RWX volumes] restart unexpectedly when the CSI plugin pods are restarted. This issue affects {harvester-product-name} v1.4.x, v1.5.0, and v1.5.1.

The workaround is to disable the setting https://documentation.suse.com/cloudnative/storage/1.8/en/longhorn-system/settings.html#_automatically_delete_workload_pod_when_the_volume_is_detached_unexpectedly[Automatically Delete Workload Pod When The Volume Is Detached Unexpectedly] on the {longhorn-product-name} UI before starting the upgrade. You must enable the setting again once the upgrade is completed.

The issue will be fixed in {longhorn-product-name} v1.8.3, v1.9.1, and later versions. {harvester-product-name} v1.6.0 will include {longhorn-product-name} v1.9.1. 

Related issues: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/8534[#8534] and https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/11158[#11158]
