versions/v1.3/modules/en/pages/observability/monitoring.adoc, before:

= Monitoring

The monitoring feature is now implemented with an addon and is disabled by default in new installations.

Users can enable/disable `rancher-monitoring` xref:../add-ons/add-ons.adoc[add-on] from the Harvester UI after installation.

Users can also enable/disable the `rancher-monitoring` addon in their Harvester installation by customizing the xref:../installation-setup/config/configuration-file.adoc#_install_addons[configuration file].

For Harvester clusters upgraded from version v1.1.x, the monitoring feature is converted to an addon automatically and kept enabled as before.

== Dashboard Metrics

Harvester has provided a built-in monitoring integration using https://prometheus.io/[Prometheus]. Monitoring is automatically enabled during the Harvester installations.

From the `Dashboard` page, users can view the cluster metrics and top 10 most used VM metrics respectively.
Also, users can click the http://grafana.com/[Grafana] dashboard link to view more dashboards on the Grafana UI.

image::monitoring/monitoring-dashboard.png[]

[NOTE]
====
Only admin users are able to view the cluster dashboard metrics.

Additionally, Grafana is provided by `rancher-monitoring`, so the default admin password is: prom-operator

Reference: https://github.com/rancher/charts/tree/dev-v2.7/charts/rancher-project-monitoring[values.yaml]
====

== VM Detail Metrics

For VMs, you can view VM metrics by clicking on the `VM details page > VM Metrics`.

image::monitoring/vm-metrics.png[]

[NOTE]
====
The current `Memory Usage` is calculated based on `(1 - free/total) * 100%`, not `(used/total) * 100%`.
====

For example, in a Linux OS, the `free -h` command outputs the current memory statistics as follows

 $ free -h
                 total        used        free      shared  buff/cache   available
 Mem:          7.7Gi       166Mi       4.6Gi       1.0Mi       2.9Gi       7.2Gi
 Swap:            0B          0B          0B

The corresponding `Memory Usage` is `(1 - 4.6/7.7) * 100%`, roughly `40%`.

== How to Configure Monitoring Settings

_Available as of v1.0.2_

Monitoring has several components that help to collect and aggregate metric data from all Nodes/Pods/VMs. The resources required for monitoring depend on your workloads and hardware resources. Harvester sets defaults based on general use cases, and you can change them accordingly.

Currently, `Resources Settings` can be configured for the following components:

* Prometheus
* Prometheus Node Exporter

=== From UI

On the *Advanced* page, you can view and change the resource settings as follows:

. Go to the *Advanced* > *Addons* page and select the *rancher-monitoring* page.
. From the *Prometheus* tab, change the resource requests and limits.
. Select *Save* when finished configuring the settings for the *rancher-monitoring* addon. The *Monitoring* deployments restart within a few seconds. Please be aware that the reboot can take time to reload previous data.

image::monitoring/modify-prometheus-settings-from-addon.png[]

[NOTE]
====
The UI configuration is only visible when the *rancher-monitoring* addon is enabled.
====

*The most frequently used option is the memory setting:*

* The `Requested Memory` is the minimum memory required by the `Monitoring` resource. The recommended value is about 5% to 10% of the system memory of one single management node. A value less than 500Mi will be denied.
* The `Memory Limit` is the maximum memory that can be allocated to a `Monitoring` resource. The recommended value is about 30% of the system's memory for one single management node. When the `Monitoring` reaches this threshold, it will automatically restart.

Depending on the available hardware resources and system loads, you may change the above settings accordingly.

[NOTE]
====
If you have multiple management nodes with different hardware resources, please set the value of Prometheus based on the smaller one.
====

[CAUTION]
====
When an increasing number of VMs get deployed on one node, the `prometheus-node-exporter` pod might get killed due to OOM (out of memory). In that case, you should increase the value of `limits.memory`.
====

=== From CLI

You can use the following `kubectl` command to change resource configurations for the `rancher-monitoring` addon: `kubectl edit addons.harvesterhci.io -n cattle-monitoring-system rancher-monitoring`.

The resource path and default values are as follows:

----
apiVersion: harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
kind: Addon
metadata:
  name: rancher-monitoring
  namespace: cattle-monitoring-system
spec:
  valuesContent: |
    prometheus:
      prometheusSpec:
        resources:
          limits:
            cpu: 1000m
            memory: 2500Mi
          requests:
            cpu: 850m
            memory: 1750Mi
----

[NOTE]
====
You can still make configuration adjustments when the addon is disabled. However, these changes only take effect when you re-enable the addon.
====

== Alertmanager

`Harvester` uses `Alertmanager` to collect and manage all the alerts that happened/happening in the cluster.

=== Alertmanager Config

==== Enable/Disable Alertmanager

`Alertmanager` is enabled by default. You may disable it from the following config path.

image::monitoring/modify-alertmanager-from-addon.png[]

==== Change Resource Setting

You can also change the resource settings of `Alertmanager` as shown in the picture above.

==== Configure AlertmanagerConfig from WebUI

To send the alerts to third-party servers, configure `AlertmanagerConfig`.

. On the UI, go to *Monitoring & Logging -> Monitoring -> Alertmanager Configs*.

. On the *Alertmanager Config: Create* screen, specify a namespace and name, and then click *Create*.
+
image::monitoring/alertmanager-config-create-1.png[]

. Click the name of the configuration that you just created.
+
image::monitoring/view-alertmanager-config.png[]

. Click *Add Receiver*.
+
image::monitoring/prepare-to-add-receiver.png[]

. Specify a name for the receiver, and then select a receiver type.
+
image::monitoring/webhook-receiver-1.png[]

. Configure the required settings, and then click *Create*.
+
image::monitoring/webhook-receiver-2.png[]

To set up Microsoft Teams or SMS webhooks, first install the rancher-alerting-drivers app using the following commands:

[,shell]
----
helm repo add rancher-charts https://charts.rancher.io/
helm repo update
helm install rancher-charts/rancher-alerting-drivers \
  --set sachet.enabled=false \  # Set to true if you want to use SMS Webhook
  --set prom2teams.enabled=true \ # Set to true if you want to use MS Teams Webhook
  --namespace cattle-monitoring-system \
  --generate-name
----

For detailed configuration instructions, see https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/reference-guides/monitoring-v2-configuration/receivers[Rancher Monitoring Receiver Configuration] in the Rancher documentation.

If your environment does not have direct internet access (air-gapped), you must manually download the Helm chart and related container images, and then upload them to the Harvester cluster.

. Download the rancher-alerting-drivers Helm chart and package it.
+
----
helm pull rancher-charts/rancher-alerting-drivers --version <VERSION>
----

. Download the required images.
+
----
docker save -o sachet.tar rancher/mirrored-messagebird-sachet:<VERSION>
docker save -o prom2teams.tar rancher/mirrored-idealista-prom2teams:<VERSION>
----

. Upload the chart and images to the Harvester cluster.

. Load the images on all Harvester nodes.
+
----
docker load -i sachet.tar
docker load -i prom2teams.tar
----

. Install rancher-alerting-drivers on the Harvester cluster.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Harvester does not manage upgrades of the rancher-alerting-drivers app, which is not part of the Harvester project. You must upgrade the app manually.
====

==== Configure AlertmanagerConfig from CLI

You can also add `AlertmanagerConfig` from the CLI.

Exampe: a Webhook receiver in the `default` namespace.

----
cat << EOF > a-single-receiver.yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: AlertmanagerConfig
metadata:
  name: amc-example
  # namespace: your value
  labels:
    alertmanagerConfig: example
spec:
  route:
    continue: true
    groupBy:
    - cluster
    - alertname
    receiver: "amc-webhook-receiver"
  receivers:
  - name: "amc-webhook-receiver"
    webhookConfigs:
    - sendResolved: true
      url: "http://192.168.122.159:8090/"
EOF

# kubectl apply -f a-single-receiver.yaml
alertmanagerconfig.monitoring.coreos.com/amc-example created

# kubectl get alertmanagerconfig -A
NAMESPACE   NAME          AGE
default     amc-example   27s
----

==== Example of an Alert Received by Webhook

Alerts sent to the webhook server will be in the following format:

----
{
'receiver': 'longhorn-system-amc-example-amc-webhook-receiver',
'status': 'firing',
'alerts': [],
'groupLabels': {},
'commonLabels': {'alertname': 'LonghornVolumeStatusWarning', 'container': 'longhorn-manager', 'endpoint': 'manager', 'instance': '10.52.0.83:9500', 'issue': 'Longhorn volume is Degraded.',
'job': 'longhorn-backend', 'namespace': 'longhorn-system', 'node': 'harv2', 'pod': 'longhorn-manager-r5bgm', 'prometheus': 'cattle-monitoring-system/rancher-monitoring-prometheus',
'service': 'longhorn-backend', 'severity': 'warning'},
'commonAnnotations': {'description': 'Longhorn volume is Degraded for more than 5 minutes.', 'runbook_url': 'https://longhorn.io/docs/1.3.0/monitoring/metrics/',
'summary': 'Longhorn volume is Degraded'},
'externalURL': 'https://192.168.122.200/api/v1/namespaces/cattle-monitoring-system/services/http:rancher-monitoring-alertmanager:9093/proxy',
'version': '4',
'groupKey': '{}/{namespace="longhorn-system"}:{}',
'truncatedAlerts': 0
}
----

[NOTE]
====
Different receivers may present the alerts in different formats. For details, please refer to the related documents.
====

==== Known Limitation

The `AlertmanagerConfig` is enforced by the `namespace`. Gloabl-level `AlertmanagerConfig` without a namespace is not supported.

We have already created a https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/2760[GithHb issue] to track upstream changes. Once the feature is available, `Harvester` will adopt it.

=== View and Manage Alerts

==== From Alertmanager Dashboard

You can visit the original dashboard of `Alertmanager` from the link below. Note that you need to replace `the-cluster-vip` with the actual cluster-vip:

____
https://the-cluster-vip/api/v1/namespaces/cattle-monitoring-system/services/http:rancher-monitoring-alertmanager:9093/proxy/#/alerts
____

The overall view of the `Alertmanager` dashboard is as follows.

image::monitoring/alertmanager-dashboard.png[]

You can view the details of an alert:

image::monitoring/alert-view-detail.png[]

==== From Prometheus Dashboard

You can visit the original dashboard of `Prometheus` from the link below. Note that you need to replace `the-cluster-vip` with the actual cluster-vip:
____
https://the-cluster-vip/api/v1/namespaces/cattle-monitoring-system/services/http:rancher-monitoring-prometheus:9090/proxy/
____

The `Alerts` menu in the top navigation bar shows all defined rules in Prometheus. You can use the filters `Inactive`, `Pending`, and `Firing` to quickly find the information that you need.

image::monitoring/prometheus-original-alerts.png[]

== Troubleshooting

For Monitoring support and troubleshooting, please refer to the xref:../troubleshooting/monitoring.adoc[troubleshooting page] .

Commit message:

Replace community doc URLs and project names in Monitoring file
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.3/modules/en/pages/observability/monitoring.adoc, after:

= Monitoring

The monitoring feature is now implemented with an add-on and is disabled by default in new installations.

You can enable and disable the `rancher-monitoring` xref:../add-ons/add-ons.adoc[add-on] after installation using the {harvester-product-name} UI or the xref:../installation-setup/config/configuration-file.adoc#_install_addons[configuration file].

== Dashboard Metrics

{harvester-product-name} has provided a built-in monitoring integration using https://prometheus.io/[Prometheus]. Monitoring is automatically enabled during installation.

From the `Dashboard` page, users can view the cluster metrics and top 10 most used VM metrics respectively.
Also, users can click the http://grafana.com/[Grafana] dashboard link to view more dashboards on the Grafana UI.

image::monitoring/monitoring-dashboard.png[]

[NOTE]
====
Only admin users are able to view the cluster dashboard metrics.

Additionally, Grafana is provided by `rancher-monitoring`, so the default admin password is: prom-operator

Reference: https://github.com/rancher/charts/tree/dev-v2.7/charts/rancher-project-monitoring[values.yaml]
====

== VM Detail Metrics

For VMs, you can view VM metrics by clicking on the `VM details page > VM Metrics`.

image::monitoring/vm-metrics.png[]

[NOTE]
====
The current `Memory Usage` is calculated based on `(1 - free/total) * 100%`, not `(used/total) * 100%`.
====

For example, in a Linux OS, the `free -h` command outputs the current memory statistics as follows

 $ free -h
                 total        used        free      shared  buff/cache   available
 Mem:          7.7Gi       166Mi       4.6Gi       1.0Mi       2.9Gi       7.2Gi
 Swap:            0B          0B          0B

The corresponding `Memory Usage` is `(1 - 4.6/7.7) * 100%`, roughly `40%`.

== How to Configure Monitoring Settings

Monitoring has several components that help to collect and aggregate metric data from all Nodes/Pods/VMs. The resources required for monitoring depend on your workloads and hardware resources. {harvester-product-name} sets defaults based on general use cases, and you can change them accordingly.

Currently, `Resources Settings` can be configured for the following components:

* Prometheus
* Prometheus Node Exporter

=== From UI

On the *Advanced* page, you can view and change the resource settings as follows:

. Go to the *Advanced* > *Addons* page and select the *rancher-monitoring* page.
. From the *Prometheus* tab, change the resource requests and limits.
. Select *Save* when finished configuring the settings for the *rancher-monitoring* addon. The *Monitoring* deployments restart within a few seconds. Please be aware that the reboot can take time to reload previous data.

image::monitoring/modify-prometheus-settings-from-addon.png[]

[NOTE]
====
The UI configuration is only visible when the *rancher-monitoring* addon is enabled.
====

*The most frequently used option is the memory setting:*

* The `Requested Memory` is the minimum memory required by the `Monitoring` resource. The recommended value is about 5% to 10% of the system memory of one single management node. A value less than 500Mi will be denied.
* The `Memory Limit` is the maximum memory that can be allocated to a `Monitoring` resource. The recommended value is about 30% of the system's memory for one single management node. When the `Monitoring` reaches this threshold, it will automatically restart.

Depending on the available hardware resources and system loads, you may change the above settings accordingly.

[NOTE]
====
If you have multiple management nodes with different hardware resources, please set the value of Prometheus based on the smaller one.
====

[CAUTION]
====
When an increasing number of VMs get deployed on one node, the `prometheus-node-exporter` pod might get killed due to OOM (out of memory). In that case, you should increase the value of `limits.memory`.
====

=== From CLI

You can use the following `kubectl` command to change resource configurations for the `rancher-monitoring` addon: `kubectl edit addons.harvesterhci.io -n cattle-monitoring-system rancher-monitoring`.

The resource path and default values are as follows:

----
apiVersion: harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
kind: Addon
metadata:
  name: rancher-monitoring
  namespace: cattle-monitoring-system
spec:
  valuesContent: |
    prometheus:
      prometheusSpec:
        resources:
          limits:
            cpu: 1000m
            memory: 2500Mi
          requests:
            cpu: 850m
            memory: 1750Mi
----

[NOTE]
====
You can still make configuration adjustments when the addon is disabled. However, these changes only take effect when you re-enable the addon.
====

== Alertmanager

{harvester-product-name} uses `Alertmanager` to collect and manage all the alerts that happened/happening in the cluster.

=== Alertmanager Config

==== Enable/Disable Alertmanager

`Alertmanager` is enabled by default. You may disable it from the following config path.

image::monitoring/modify-alertmanager-from-addon.png[]

==== Change Resource Setting

You can also change the resource settings of `Alertmanager` as shown in the picture above.

==== Configure AlertmanagerConfig from WebUI

To send the alerts to third-party servers, configure `AlertmanagerConfig`.

. On the UI, go to *Monitoring & Logging -> Monitoring -> Alertmanager Configs*.

. On the *Alertmanager Config: Create* screen, specify a namespace and name, and then click *Create*.
+
image::monitoring/alertmanager-config-create-1.png[]

. Click the name of the configuration that you just created.
+
image::monitoring/view-alertmanager-config.png[]

. Click *Add Receiver*.
+
image::monitoring/prepare-to-add-receiver.png[]

. Specify a name for the receiver, and then select a receiver type.
+
image::monitoring/webhook-receiver-1.png[]

. Configure the required settings, and then click *Create*.
+
image::monitoring/webhook-receiver-2.png[]

To set up Microsoft Teams or SMS webhooks, first install the rancher-alerting-drivers app using the following commands:

[,shell]
----
helm repo add rancher-charts https://charts.rancher.io/
helm repo update
helm install rancher-charts/rancher-alerting-drivers \
  --set sachet.enabled=false \  # Set to true if you want to use SMS Webhook
  --set prom2teams.enabled=true \ # Set to true if you want to use MS Teams Webhook
  --namespace cattle-monitoring-system \
  --generate-name
----

For detailed configuration instructions, see https://documentation.suse.com/cloudnative/rancher-manager/v2.9/en/observability/monitoring-and-dashboards/configuration/receivers.html[Receiver Configuration] in the {rancher-short-name} documentation.

If your environment does not have direct internet access (air-gapped), you must manually download the Helm chart and related container images, and then upload them to the {harvester-product-name} cluster.

. Download the rancher-alerting-drivers Helm chart and package it.
+
----
helm pull rancher-charts/rancher-alerting-drivers --version <VERSION>
----

. Download the required images.
+
----
docker save -o sachet.tar rancher/mirrored-messagebird-sachet:<VERSION>
docker save -o prom2teams.tar rancher/mirrored-idealista-prom2teams:<VERSION>
----

. Upload the chart and images to the {harvester-product-name} cluster.

. Load the images on all {harvester-product-name} nodes.
+
----
docker load -i sachet.tar
docker load -i prom2teams.tar
----

. Install rancher-alerting-drivers on the {harvester-product-name} cluster.

[IMPORTANT]
====
{harvester-product-name} does not manage upgrades of the `rancher-alerting-drivers` app, which is not part of {harvester-product-name}. You must upgrade the app manually.
====

==== Configure AlertmanagerConfig from CLI

You can also add `AlertmanagerConfig` from the CLI.

Exampe: a Webhook receiver in the `default` namespace.

----
cat << EOF > a-single-receiver.yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: AlertmanagerConfig
metadata:
  name: amc-example
  # namespace: your value
  labels:
    alertmanagerConfig: example
spec:
  route:
    continue: true
    groupBy:
    - cluster
    - alertname
    receiver: "amc-webhook-receiver"
  receivers:
  - name: "amc-webhook-receiver"
    webhookConfigs:
    - sendResolved: true
      url: "http://192.168.122.159:8090/"
EOF

# kubectl apply -f a-single-receiver.yaml
alertmanagerconfig.monitoring.coreos.com/amc-example created

# kubectl get alertmanagerconfig -A
NAMESPACE   NAME          AGE
default     amc-example   27s
----

==== Example of an Alert Received by Webhook

Alerts sent to the webhook server will be in the following format:

----
{
'receiver': 'longhorn-system-amc-example-amc-webhook-receiver',
'status': 'firing',
'alerts': [],
'groupLabels': {},
'commonLabels': {'alertname': 'LonghornVolumeStatusWarning', 'container': 'longhorn-manager', 'endpoint': 'manager', 'instance': '10.52.0.83:9500', 'issue': 'Longhorn volume is Degraded.',
'job': 'longhorn-backend', 'namespace': 'longhorn-system', 'node': 'harv2', 'pod': 'longhorn-manager-r5bgm', 'prometheus': 'cattle-monitoring-system/rancher-monitoring-prometheus',
'service': 'longhorn-backend', 'severity': 'warning'},
'commonAnnotations': {'description': 'Longhorn volume is Degraded for more than 5 minutes.', 'runbook_url': 'https://longhorn.io/docs/1.3.0/monitoring/metrics/',
'summary': 'Longhorn volume is Degraded'},
'externalURL': 'https://192.168.122.200/api/v1/namespaces/cattle-monitoring-system/services/http:rancher-monitoring-alertmanager:9093/proxy',
'version': '4',
'groupKey': '{}/{namespace="longhorn-system"}:{}',
'truncatedAlerts': 0
}
----

[NOTE]
====
Different receivers may present the alerts in different formats. For details, please refer to the related documents.
====

==== Known Limitation

The `AlertmanagerConfig` is enforced by the `namespace`. Gloabl-level `AlertmanagerConfig` without a namespace is not supported.

We have already created a https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/2760[GitHub issue] to track upstream changes. Once the feature is available, {harvester-product-name} will adopt it.

=== View and Manage Alerts

==== From Alertmanager Dashboard

You can visit the original dashboard of `Alertmanager` from the link below. Note that you need to replace `the-cluster-vip` with the actual cluster-vip:

____
https://the-cluster-vip/api/v1/namespaces/cattle-monitoring-system/services/http:rancher-monitoring-alertmanager:9093/proxy/#/alerts
____

The overall view of the `Alertmanager` dashboard is as follows.

image::monitoring/alertmanager-dashboard.png[]

You can view the details of an alert:

image::monitoring/alert-view-detail.png[]

==== From Prometheus Dashboard

You can visit the original dashboard of `Prometheus` from the link below. Note that you need to replace `the-cluster-vip` with the actual cluster-vip:
____
https://the-cluster-vip/api/v1/namespaces/cattle-monitoring-system/services/http:rancher-monitoring-prometheus:9090/proxy/
____

The `Alerts` menu in the top navigation bar shows all defined rules in Prometheus. You can use the filters `Inactive`, `Pending`, and `Firing` to quickly find the information that you need.

image::monitoring/prometheus-original-alerts.png[]

== Troubleshooting

For Monitoring support and troubleshooting, please refer to the xref:../troubleshooting/monitoring.adoc[troubleshooting page] .
