versions/v1.3/modules/en/pages/add-ons/add-ons.adoc, before:

= Add-ons

Harvester makes optional functionality available as Addons.

One of the key reasons for the same is to ensure that Harvester installation footprint can be kept low while allowing users to enable/disable functionality based on their use case or requirements.

Some level of customization is allowed for each addon, which depends on the underlying addon.

_Available as of v1.1.0_

image::addons/AddonsV120.png[]

[NOTE]
====
*harvester-seeder* is released as an experimental feature in Harvester v1.2.0 and has an *Experimental* label added to the *Name*.
====

You can enable a *Disabled* by choosing an addon and selecting *⋮* > *Enable* from the *Basic* tab.

image::addons/enable-rancher-logging-addon.png[]

When the addon is enabled successfully, the *State* will be *DeploySuccessful*.

image::addons/deploy-successful-addon.png[]

You can disable an *Enabled* by choosing an addon and selecting *⋮* > *Disable* or from the *Basic* tab.

image::addons/disable-rancher-monitoring-addon.png[]

When the addon is disabled successfully, the *State* will be *Disabled*.

[NOTE]
====
When an addon is disabled, the configuration data is stored to reuse when the addon is enabled again.
====

Commit message:

Remove Harvester from file titles and content + fix other issues
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.3/modules/en/pages/add-ons/add-ons.adoc, after:

= Add-ons

SUSE® Virtualization makes optional functionality available as add-ons.

One of the key reasons for the same is to ensure that SUSE® Virtualization installation footprint can be kept low while allowing users to enable/disable functionality based on their use case or requirements.

Some level of customization is allowed for each add-on, which depends on the underlying add-on.

image::addons/AddonsV120.png[]

You can enable a *Disabled* by choosing an add-on and selecting *⋮* > *Enable* from the *Basic* tab.

image::addons/enable-rancher-logging-addon.png[]

When the add-on is enabled successfully, the *State* will be *DeploySuccessful*.

image::addons/deploy-successful-addon.png[]

You can disable an *Enabled* by choosing an add-on and selecting *⋮* > *Disable* or from the *Basic* tab.

image::addons/disable-rancher-monitoring-addon.png[]

When the add-on is disabled successfully, the *State* will be *Disabled*.

[NOTE]
====
When an add-on is disabled, the configuration data is stored to reuse when the add-on is enabled again.
====
