versions/v1.3/modules/en/pages/add-ons/pcidevices-controller.adoc, before:

= PCI Devices Controller

A `PCIDevice` in Harvester represents a host device with a PCI address.
The devices can be passed through the hypervisor to a VM by creating a `PCIDeviceClaim` resource,
or by using the UI to enable passthrough. Passing a device through the hypervisor means that
the VM can directly access the device, and effectively owns the device. A VM can even install
its own drivers for that device.

This is accomplished by using the `pcidevices-controller` addon.

To use the PCI devices feature, users need to enable the `pcidevices-controller` addon first.

image::vm-import-controller/EnableAddon.png[]

Once the `pcidevices-controller` addon is deployed successfully, it can take a few minutes for it to scan and the PCIDevice CRDs to become available.

image:pcidevices/PcideviceEnabled.png[]

== Enabling Passthrough on a PCI Device

. Now go to the `Advanced -> PCI Devices` page:
+
image::pcidevices/advanced-pcidevices-index.png[]

. Search for your device by vendor name (e.g. NVIDIA, Intel, etc.) or device name.
+
image::pcidevices/search-pcidevices.png[]

. Select the devices you want to enable for passthrough:
+
image::pcidevices/select-pcidevices.png[]

. Then click *Enable Passthrough* and read the warning message. If you still want to enable these devices, click *Enable* and wait for all devices to be `Enabled`.
+
[CAUTION]
====
Please do not use `host-owned` PCI devices (e.g., management and VLAN NICs). Incorrect device allocation may cause damage to your cluster, including node failure.
====
+
image::pcidevices/enable-pcidevices-inprogress.png[]
+
image::pcidevices/enable-pcidevices-done.png[]

== Attaching PCI Devices to a VM

After enabling these PCI devices, you can navigate to the *Virtual Machines* page and select *Edit Config* to pass these devices.

image::pcidevices/vm-pcidevices-edit-config.png[]

Select *PCI Devices* and use the *Available PCI Devices* drop-down. Select the devices you want to attach from the list displayed and then click *Save*.

image::pcidevices/vm-pcidevices-attach.png[]

== Using a passed-through PCI Device inside the VM

Boot the VM up, and run `lspci` inside the VM, the attached PCI devices will show up, although the PCI address in the VM won't necessarily match the PCI address in the host.

== Installing drivers for your PCI device inside the VM

This is just like installing drivers in the host. The PCI passthrough feature will bind the host device to the `vfio-pci` driver, which gives VMs the ability to use their own drivers. https://tobilehman.com/posts/suse-harvester-pci/#toc[Here is a screenshot] of NVIDIA drivers being installed in a VM. It includes a CUDA example that proves that the device drivers work.

== SRIOV Network Devices

_Available as of v1.2.0_

image::pcidevices/SriovNetworkDevicesLink.png[]

The `pcidevices-controller` addon can now scan network interfaces on the underlying hosts and check if they support SRIOV Virtual Functions (VFs). If a valid device is found, `pcidevices-controller` will generate a new `SRIOVNetworkDevice` object.

image::pcidevices/SriovNetworkDevicesList.png[]

To create VFs on a SriovNetworkDevice, you can click *⋮ > Enable* and then define the *Number of Virtual Functions*.

image:pcidevices/SriovNetworkDeviceEnable.png[]

image::pcidevices/SriovNetworkVFDefinition.png[]

The `pcidevices-controller` will define the VFs on the network interface and report the new PCI device status for the newly created VFs.

image::pcidevices/SriovNetworkDevicesVFStatus.png[]

On the next re-scan, the `pcidevices-controller` will create the PCIDevices for VFs. This can take up to 1 minute.

You can now navigate to the *PCI Devices* page to view the new devices.

We have also introduced a new filter to help you filter PCI devices by the underlying network interface.

image::pcidevices/SriovNetworkDevicesFilter.png[]

The newly created PCI device can be passed through to virtual machines like any other PCI device.

image:pcidevices/SriovNetworkDevicesFilterResult.png[]

Commit message:

Remove Harvester from file titles and content + fix other issues
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.3/modules/en/pages/add-ons/pcidevices-controller.adoc, after:

= PCI Devices Controller

A `PCIDevice` in SUSE® Virtualization represents a host device with a PCI address.
The devices can be passed through the hypervisor to a VM by creating a `PCIDeviceClaim` resource,
or by using the UI to enable passthrough. Passing a device through the hypervisor means that
the VM can directly access the device, and effectively owns the device. A VM can even install
its own drivers for that device.

This is accomplished by using the `pcidevices-controller` add-on.

To use the PCI devices feature, users need to enable the `pcidevices-controller` add-on first.

image::vm-import-controller/EnableAddon.png[]

Once the `pcidevices-controller` add-on is deployed successfully, it can take a few minutes for it to scan and the PCIDevice CRDs to become available.

image:pcidevices/PcideviceEnabled.png[]

== Enabling Passthrough on a PCI Device

. Now go to the `Advanced -> PCI Devices` page:
+
image::pcidevices/advanced-pcidevices-index.png[]

. Search for your device by vendor name (e.g. NVIDIA, Intel, etc.) or device name.
+
image::pcidevices/search-pcidevices.png[]

. Select the devices you want to enable for passthrough:
+
image::pcidevices/select-pcidevices.png[]

. Then click *Enable Passthrough* and read the warning message. If you still want to enable these devices, click *Enable* and wait for all devices to be `Enabled`.
+
[CAUTION]
====
Please do not use `host-owned` PCI devices (e.g., management and VLAN NICs). Incorrect device allocation may cause damage to your cluster, including node failure.
====
+
image::pcidevices/enable-pcidevices-inprogress.png[]
+
image::pcidevices/enable-pcidevices-done.png[]

== Attaching PCI Devices to a VM

After enabling these PCI devices, you can navigate to the *Virtual Machines* page and select *Edit Config* to pass these devices.

image::pcidevices/vm-pcidevices-edit-config.png[]

Select *PCI Devices* and use the *Available PCI Devices* drop-down. Select the devices you want to attach from the list displayed and then click *Save*.

image::pcidevices/vm-pcidevices-attach.png[]

== Using a passed-through PCI Device inside the VM

Boot the VM up, and run `lspci` inside the VM, the attached PCI devices will show up, although the PCI address in the VM won't necessarily match the PCI address in the host.

== Installing drivers for your PCI device inside the VM

This is just like installing drivers in the host. The PCI passthrough feature will bind the host device to the `vfio-pci` driver, which gives VMs the ability to use their own drivers. https://tobilehman.com/posts/suse-harvester-pci/#toc[Here is a screenshot] of NVIDIA drivers being installed in a VM. It includes a CUDA example that proves that the device drivers work.

== SRIOV Network Devices

_Available as of v1.2.0_

image::pcidevices/SriovNetworkDevicesLink.png[]

The `pcidevices-controller` add-on can now scan network interfaces on the underlying hosts and check if they support SRIOV Virtual Functions (VFs). If a valid device is found, `pcidevices-controller` will generate a new `SRIOVNetworkDevice` object.

image::pcidevices/SriovNetworkDevicesList.png[]

To create VFs on a SriovNetworkDevice, you can click *⋮ > Enable* and then define the *Number of Virtual Functions*.

image:pcidevices/SriovNetworkDeviceEnable.png[]

image::pcidevices/SriovNetworkVFDefinition.png[]

The `pcidevices-controller` will define the VFs on the network interface and report the new PCI device status for the newly created VFs.

image::pcidevices/SriovNetworkDevicesVFStatus.png[]

On the next re-scan, the `pcidevices-controller` will create the PCIDevices for VFs. This can take up to 1 minute.

You can now navigate to the *PCI Devices* page to view the new devices.

We have also introduced a new filter to help you filter PCI devices by the underlying network interface.

image::pcidevices/SriovNetworkDevicesFilter.png[]

The newly created PCI device can be passed through to virtual machines like any other PCI device.

image:pcidevices/SriovNetworkDevicesFilterResult.png[]
