versions/v1.3/modules/en/pages/add-ons/rancher-vcluster.adoc, before:

= Rancher Manager (Experimental)

The `rancher-vcluster` addon allows you to run Rancher Manager as a workload on the underlying Harvester cluster and is implemented using https://www.vcluster.com/[vcluster].

image::vm-import-controller/EnableAddon.png[]

The addon runs a nested K3s cluster in the `rancher-vcluster` namespace and deploys Rancher to this cluster.

During the installation, the ingress for Rancher is synced to the Harvester cluster, allowing end users to access Rancher.

== Installing rancher-vcluster

The `rancher-vcluster` addon is not packaged with Harvester, but you can find it in the https://github.com/harvester/experimental-addons[experimental-addons repo].

Assuming you are using the Harvester kubeconfig, you can run the following commands to install the addon:

[,sh]
----
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harvester/experimental-addons/main/rancher-vcluster/rancher-vcluster.yaml
----

== Configuring rancher-vcluster

After installing the addon, you need to configure it from the Harvester UI as follows:

. Select *Advanced* > *Addons*.
. Find the `rancher-vcluster` addon and select *⋮* > *Edit Config*.
+
image::rancher-vcluster/VclusterConfig.png[]

. In the *Hostname* field, enter a valid DNS record pointing to the Harvester VIP. This is essential as the vcluster ingress is synced to the parent Harvester cluster. A valid hostname is used to filter ingress traffic to the vcluster workload.
. In the *Bootstrap Password* field, enter the bootstrap password for the new Rancher deployed on the vcluster.

Once the addon is deployed, Rancher can take a few minutes to become available.

You can then access Rancher via the hostname DNS record that you provided.

See xref:../integrations/rancher/virtualization-management.adoc[Rancher Integration] for more information.

[NOTE]
.Disabling rancher-vcluster
====
The `rancher-vcluster` addon is deployed on a `vcluster` Statefulset that uses a Longhorn PVC.

When `rancher-vcluster` is disabled, the PVC `data-rancher-vcluster-0` will remain in the `rancher-vcluster` namespace.

If you enable the addon again, the PVC is re-used, and Rancher will have the old state available again.

If you want to wipe the data, ensure that the PVC is deleted.
====

Commit message:

Remove Harvester from file titles and content + fix other issues
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.3/modules/en/pages/add-ons/rancher-vcluster.adoc, after:

= Rancher Manager (Experimental)

The `rancher-vcluster` add-on allows you to run Rancher Manager as a workload on the underlying SUSE® Virtualization cluster and is implemented using https://www.vcluster.com/[vcluster].

image::vm-import-controller/EnableAddon.png[]

The add-on runs a nested K3s cluster in the `rancher-vcluster` namespace and deploys Rancher to this cluster.

During the installation, the ingress for Rancher is synced to the SUSE® Virtualization cluster, allowing end users to access Rancher.

== Installing rancher-vcluster

The `rancher-vcluster` add-on is not packaged with SUSE® Virtualization, but you can find it in the https://github.com/harvester/experimental-addons[experimental-addons repo].

Assuming you are using the SUSE® Virtualization kubeconfig, you can run the following commands to install the add-on:

[,sh]
----
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harvester/experimental-addons/main/rancher-vcluster/rancher-vcluster.yaml
----

== Configuring rancher-vcluster

After installing the add-on, you need to configure it from the SUSE® Virtualization UI as follows:

. Select *Advanced* > *Add-ons*.
. Find the `rancher-vcluster` add-on and select *⋮* > *Edit Config*.
+
image::rancher-vcluster/VclusterConfig.png[]

. In the *Hostname* field, enter a valid DNS record pointing to the SUSE® Virtualization VIP. This is essential as the vcluster ingress is synced to the parent SUSE® Virtualization cluster. A valid hostname is used to filter ingress traffic to the vcluster workload.
. In the *Bootstrap Password* field, enter the bootstrap password for the new Rancher deployed on the vcluster.

Once the add-on is deployed, Rancher can take a few minutes to become available.

You can then access Rancher via the hostname DNS record that you provided.

See xref:../integrations/rancher/virtualization-management.adoc[Rancher Integration] for more information.

[NOTE]
.Disabling rancher-vcluster
====
The `rancher-vcluster` add-on is deployed on a `vcluster` Statefulset that uses a Longhorn PVC.

When `rancher-vcluster` is disabled, the PVC `data-rancher-vcluster-0` will remain in the `rancher-vcluster` namespace.

If you enable the add-on again, the PVC is re-used, and Rancher will have the old state available again.

If you want to wipe the data, ensure that the PVC is deleted.
====
