versions/v1.6/modules/en/pages/installation-setup/post-installation.adoc, before:

= Post-Installation Tasks

You can enhance the security and performance of your Harvester cluster by performing the following procedures after installation is completed.

== Disable the SSH password authentication

By default, SSH password authentication is enabled on Harvester nodes during installation. This allows the administrator to access the nodes for post-installation diagnosis.

Once installation is completed, however, disabling SSH password authentication is recommended. You can run the following command, which uses `kubectl` to apply a https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.6/advanced/cloudinitcrd[`CloudInit`] configuration, to disable SSH password authentication on all Harvester nodes:

[,shell]
----
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: node.harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
kind: CloudInit
metadata:
  name: ssh-config
spec:
  matchSelector: 
    harvesterhci.io/managed: "true" # apply to all Harvester nodes
  filename: 99-ssh-config
  contents: |
    stages:
      network:
      - name: "disable password login"
        commands:
        - sed -i -E 's/^#?PasswordAuthentication .*/PasswordAuthentication no/' /etc/ssh/sshd_config
        - sed -i -E 's/^#?ChallengeResponseAuthentication .*/ChallengeResponseAuthentication no/' /etc/ssh/sshd_config
        - sed -i -E 's/^#?UsePAM .*/UsePAM no/' /etc/ssh/sshd_config
        - systemctl restart sshd
  paused: false
EOF
----

[NOTE]
====
* The `matchSelector` field is used to select Harvester nodes with specific labels.
* All the affected nodes must be rebooted for the `CloudInit` configuration to take effect.
====

Once the configuration is applied, any attempts to access the Harvester nodes with the SSH password are denied.

[,shell]
----
$ ssh -o PreferredAuthentications=password rancher@<node-ip>
rancher@<node-ip>: Permission denied (publickey,keyboard-interactive).
----

Commit message:

Replace Harvester with product name variable
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.6/modules/en/pages/installation-setup/post-installation.adoc, after:

= Post-Installation Tasks

You can enhance the security and performance of your {harvester-product-name} cluster by performing the following procedures after installation is completed.

== Disable the SSH password authentication

By default, SSH password authentication is enabled on {harvester-product-name} nodes during installation. This allows the administrator to access the nodes for post-installation diagnosis.

Once installation is completed, however, disabling SSH password authentication is recommended. You can run the following command, which uses `kubectl` to apply a https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.6/advanced/cloudinitcrd[`CloudInit`] configuration, to disable SSH password authentication on all {harvester-product-name} nodes:

[,shell]
----
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: node.harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
kind: CloudInit
metadata:
  name: ssh-config
spec:
  matchSelector: 
    harvesterhci.io/managed: "true" # apply to all nodes
  filename: 99-ssh-config
  contents: |
    stages:
      network:
      - name: "disable password login"
        commands:
        - sed -i -E 's/^#?PasswordAuthentication .*/PasswordAuthentication no/' /etc/ssh/sshd_config
        - sed -i -E 's/^#?ChallengeResponseAuthentication .*/ChallengeResponseAuthentication no/' /etc/ssh/sshd_config
        - sed -i -E 's/^#?UsePAM .*/UsePAM no/' /etc/ssh/sshd_config
        - systemctl restart sshd
  paused: false
EOF
----

[NOTE]
====
* The `matchSelector` field is used to select {harvester-product-name} nodes with specific labels.
* All the affected nodes must be rebooted for the `CloudInit` configuration to take effect.
====

Once the configuration is applied, any attempts to access the {harvester-product-name} nodes with the SSH password are denied.

[,shell]
----
$ ssh -o PreferredAuthentications=password rancher@<node-ip>
rancher@<node-ip>: Permission denied (publickey,keyboard-interactive).
----
