versions/v1.7/modules/en/pages/add-ons/nvidia-driver-toolkit.adoc, before:

= NVIDIA Driver Toolkit
:revdate: 2025-05-09
:page-revdate: {revdate}

nvidia-driver-toolkit is an add-on that allows you to deploy out-of-band NVIDIA GRID KVM drivers to your existing SUSE® Virtualization clusters.

[NOTE]
====
The toolkit only includes the correct SUSE® Virtualization OS image, build utilities, and kernel headers that allow NVIDIA drivers to be compiled and loaded from the container. You must download the NVIDIA KVM drivers using a valid NVIDIA subscription. For guidance on identifying the correct driver for your NVIDIA GPU, see the https://www.nvidia.com/en-au/drivers/vgpu-software-driver/[NVIDIA documentation].
====

The SUSE® Virtualization ISO does not include the nvidia-driver-toolkit container image. Because of its size, the image is pulled from Docker Hub by default. If you have an air-gapped environment, you can download and push the image to your private registry. The *Image Repository* and *Image Tag* fields on the *nvidia-driver-toolkit* screen provide information about the image that you must download.

image::advanced/nvidia-driver-toolkit.png[]

[NOTE]
====
Each new SUSE® Virtualization version will be released with the correct nvidia-driver-toolkit image to ensure that all dependencies required to install the NVIDIA vGPU KVM drivers are available in the image.
====

To enable the add-on, users need to perform the following:

* Provide the `Driver Location`: which is an http location where nvidia vgpu kvm driver file is located (as shown in the example)
* update the `Image Repository` and `Image Tag` if needed

Once the add-on is enabled, a nvidia-driver-toolkit daemonset is deployed to the cluster.

On pod startup, the entrypoint script will download the nvidia driver from the speificied `Driver Location`, install the driver and load the kernel drivers.

The `PCIDevices` add-on can now leverage this add-on to manage the lifecycle of the vGPU devices on nodes containing supported GPU xref:../hosts/vgpu-support.adoc[devices].

Commit message:

Add text from PR 887 (Installing custom NVIDIA drivers)
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.7/modules/en/pages/add-ons/nvidia-driver-toolkit.adoc, after:

= NVIDIA Driver Toolkit
:revdate: 2025-12-01
:page-revdate: {revdate}

The `nvidia-driver-toolkit` add-on allows you to deploy out-of-band NVIDIA GRID KVM drivers to your existing {harvester-product-name} clusters.

[NOTE]
====
The toolkit only includes the correct {harvester-product-name} OS image, build utilities, and kernel headers that allow NVIDIA drivers to be compiled and loaded from the container. You must download the NVIDIA KVM drivers using a valid NVIDIA subscription. For guidance on identifying the correct driver for your NVIDIA GPU, see the https://www.nvidia.com/en-au/drivers/vgpu-software-driver/[NVIDIA documentation].

Each new {harvester-product-name} version is released with the correct `nvidia-driver-toolkit` image to ensure that all dependencies required to install the NVIDIA vGPU KVM drivers are available in the image.
====

The {harvester-product-name} ISO does not include the `nvidia-driver-toolkit` container image. Because of its size, the image is pulled from Docker Hub by default. If you have an air-gapped environment, you can download and push the image to your private registry. The *Image Repository* and *Image Tag* fields on the *nvidia-driver-toolkit* screen provide information about the image that you must download.

image::advanced/nvidia-driver-toolkit.png[]

To enable the add-on, you must specify the HTTP location where the NVIDIA vGPU KVM driver file is located. You can also update the image repository and image tag, if necessary. Once the add-on is enabled, an `nvidia-driver-toolkit` daemonset is deployed to the cluster.

On pod startup, the ENTRYPOINT script downloads the NVIDIA driver from the specified driver location. Install the driver and load the kernel drivers.

The `pcidevices-controller` add-on can now leverage this add-on to manage the lifecycle of the vGPU devices on nodes containing supported GPU xref:../hosts/vgpu-support.adoc[devices].

== Installing different NVIDIA driver versions

NVIDIA driver versions can vary across cluster nodes. If you want to install a specific driver version on a node, you must annotate the node before starting the `nvidia-driver-toolkit` add-on.

[,shell]
----
kubectl annotate nodes {node name} sriovgpu.harvesterhci.io/custom-driver=https://[driver location]
----

The add-on installs the specified driver version upon starting.

If an NVIDIA driver was previously installed, you must restart the pod to trigger the installation process again.
