versions/v1.7/modules/en/pages/add-ons/virtual-machine-auto-balance.adoc, before:

= Virtual Machine Auto Balance (Experimental)
:revdate: 2026-01-02
:page-revdate: {revdate}

The *virtual-machine-auto-balance* add-on allows {harvester-product-name} to use the https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/descheduler[Kubernetes Descheduler] for rebalancing of virtual machine workloads. The Kubernetes Descheduler optimizes workload scheduling by evicting pods that are not optimally placed according to administrator-defined policies. This crucial function enhances resource utilization, balances workloads across nodes, and improves overall cluster performance.

== Enabling the add-on

When enabled, the add-on deploys the Descheduler in the `kube-system` namespace and a related configuration in the `kube-system/descheduler` ConfigMap. You can enable the add-on only when the cluster has more than one node.

. On the {harvester-product-name} UI, go to *Advanced -> Add-ons*.

. Select *descheduler (Experimental)*, and then select *⋮ -> Enable*.

== Descheduler policies

The configuration contains the following plugins:

* `DefaultEvictor`: Provides common eviction configuration at the top level.
* `LowNodeUtilization`: Monitors node resource usage and evicts pods from overutilized nodes to underutilized ones based on defined thresholds.

With the default configuration, the Descheduler only evicts virtual machine pods.

== Customizing Descheduler policies

Select *⋮ -> Edit YAML* to customize the Descheduler policies according to your requirements. The configuration is defined in YAML format.

[,yaml]
----
  - apiVersion: harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
    kind: Addon
    metadata:
      name: descheduler
      namespace: kube-system
      labels:
        addon.harvesterhci.io/displayName: "virtual-machine-auto-balance"
        addon.harvesterhci.io/experimental: "true"
    spec:
      repo: http://harvester-cluster-repo.cattle-system.svc/charts
      version: << .DESCHEDULER_CHART_VERSION >>
      chart: descheduler
      {{- if and .Addons .Addons.descheduler }}
      enabled: {{ .Addons.descheduler.Enabled }}
      {{- else }}
      enabled: false
      {{- end }}
      valuesContent: |
        kind: Deployment
        image:
          repository: registry.k8s.io/descheduler/descheduler
          pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        deschedulingInterval: 5m
        replicas: 1
        cmdOptions:
          v: 3
          feature-gates: EvictionsInBackground=true
        deschedulerPolicy:
          maxNoOfPodsToEvictPerNode: 5
          profiles:
          - name: default
            pluginConfig:
            - name: DefaultEvictor
              args:
                nodeFit: true
                ignorePvcPods: false
                evictLocalStoragePods: true
                labelSelector:
                  matchExpressions:
                    - key: "kubevirt.io"
                      operator: "In"
                      values:
                        - "virt-launcher"
            - name: LowNodeUtilization
              args:
                evictableNamespaces:
                  exclude:
                  - cattle-dashboards
                  - cattle-fleet-clusters-system
                  - cattle-fleet-local-system
                  - cattle-fleet-system
                  - cattle-logging-system
                  - cattle-monitoring-system
                  - cattle-provisioning-capi-system
                  - cattle-system
                  - fleet-local
                  - harvester-system
                  - kube-system
                  - local
                  - longhorn-system
                thresholds:
                  cpu: 30
                  memory: 30
                targetThresholds:
                  cpu: 50
                  memory: 50
            plugins:
              balance:
                enabled:
                - LowNodeUtilization
----

** `deschedulingInterval`: How often the Descheduler runs. The default value is `5m` (5 minutes).
** `maxNoOfPodsToEvictPerNode`: Maximum number of pods that can be evicted during a single descheduling cycle. The default is value is `5`.
** `evictableNamespaces.exclude`: Namespaces to be excluded from eviction. By default, the system namespaces are excluded to protect critical system components.
** `targetThresholds`: Upper utilization limit for monitored resources. Nodes whose usage exceeds this threshold are marked as overutilized, triggering pod eviction to reduce their load. Default values are automatically applied for CPU (`50`) and memory (`50`), but you can define values for other monitored resources.
** `thresholds`: Lower utilization limit for monitored resources. Pods evicted from overutilized nodes are rescheduled only to nodes whose usage is currently below this threshold. Default values are automatically applied for CPU (`30`) and memory (`30`), but you can define values for other monitored resources.

== Disabling the add-on

. On the {harvester-product-name} UI, go to *Advanced -> Add-ons*.

. Select *descheduler (Experimental)*, and then select *⋮ -> Disable*.

== Node usage

Check the Descheduler logs for information about node usage.

[,shell]
----
> kubectl logs -n kube-system -l app.kubernetes.io/name=descheduler -f
I1209 02:06:21.067225       1 lownodeutilization.go:210] "Node has been classified" category="underutilized" node="hp-131-tink-system" usage={"cpu":"4583m","memory":"3075Mi","pods":"25"} usagePercentage={"cpu":20,"memory":2,"pods":13}
I1209 02:06:21.067328       1 lownodeutilization.go:210] "Node has been classified" category="underutilized" node="hp-121-tink-system" usage={"cpu":"5198m","memory":"4023Mi","pods":"30"} usagePercentage={"cpu":23,"memory":3,"pods":15}
I1209 02:06:21.067355       1 lownodeutilization.go:210] "Node has been classified" category="overutilized" node="hp-119-tink-system" usage={"cpu":"10490m","memory":"109333705514","pods":"81"} usagePercentage={"cpu":46,"memory":81,"pods":41}
----

== Troubleshooting

The Descheduler works on pods instead of virtual machines. If a virtual machine that you expect to be evicted is not, check the Descheduler logs.

Example:

[,shell]
----
> kubectl logs -n kube-system -l app.kubernetes.io/name=descheduler -f
I1209 02:06:21.068059       1 defaultevictor.go:228] "pod does not fit on any other node because of nodeSelector(s), Taint(s), or nodes marked as unschedulable" pod="default/virt-launcher-vm-3-w866s"
----

In this example, the virtual machine was manually migrated, so the related pod's specification contains a restrictive node selector. The Descheduler is unable to evict this pod because the node selector would prevent the pod from being successfully run on any other available node in the cluster.

Commit message:

Add text from PR 944 (Missing information)
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.7/modules/en/pages/add-ons/virtual-machine-auto-balance.adoc, after:

= Virtual Machine Auto Balance (Experimental)
:revdate: 2026-01-02
:page-revdate: {revdate}

[NOTE]
====
*virtual-machine-auto-balance* is an *experimental* add-on. For more information about experimental features, see xref:introduction/document-conventions.adoc#_feature_labels[Feature Labels].
====

The *virtual-machine-auto-balance* add-on allows {harvester-product-name} to use the https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/descheduler[Kubernetes Descheduler] for rebalancing of virtual machine workloads. The Kubernetes Descheduler optimizes workload scheduling by evicting pods that are not optimally placed according to administrator-defined policies. This crucial function enhances resource utilization, balances workloads across nodes, and improves overall cluster performance.

== Enabling the add-on

When enabled, the add-on deploys the Descheduler in the `kube-system` namespace and a related configuration in the `kube-system/descheduler` ConfigMap. You can enable the add-on only when the cluster has more than one node.

. On the {harvester-product-name} UI, go to *Advanced -> Add-ons*.

. Select *descheduler (Experimental)*, and then select *⋮ -> Enable*.

== Descheduler policies

The configuration contains the following plugins:

* `DefaultEvictor`: Provides common eviction configuration at the top level.
* `LowNodeUtilization`: Monitors node resource usage and evicts pods from overutilized nodes to underutilized ones based on defined thresholds.

With the default configuration, the Descheduler only evicts virtual machine pods.

== Customizing Descheduler policies

Select *⋮ -> Edit YAML* to customize the Descheduler policies according to your requirements. The configuration is defined in YAML format.

[,yaml]
----
  - apiVersion: harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
    kind: Addon
    metadata:
      name: descheduler
      namespace: kube-system
      labels:
        addon.harvesterhci.io/displayName: "virtual-machine-auto-balance"
        addon.harvesterhci.io/experimental: "true"
    spec:
      repo: http://harvester-cluster-repo.cattle-system.svc/charts
      version: << .DESCHEDULER_CHART_VERSION >>
      chart: descheduler
      {{- if and .Addons .Addons.descheduler }}
      enabled: {{ .Addons.descheduler.Enabled }}
      {{- else }}
      enabled: false
      {{- end }}
      valuesContent: |
        kind: Deployment
        image:
          repository: registry.k8s.io/descheduler/descheduler
          pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        deschedulingInterval: 5m
        replicas: 1
        cmdOptions:
          v: 3
          feature-gates: EvictionsInBackground=true
        deschedulerPolicy:
          maxNoOfPodsToEvictPerNode: 5
          profiles:
          - name: default
            pluginConfig:
            - name: DefaultEvictor
              args:
                nodeFit: true
                ignorePvcPods: false
                evictLocalStoragePods: true
                labelSelector:
                  matchExpressions:
                    - key: "kubevirt.io"
                      operator: "In"
                      values:
                        - "virt-launcher"
            - name: LowNodeUtilization
              args:
                evictableNamespaces:
                  exclude:
                  - cattle-dashboards
                  - cattle-fleet-clusters-system
                  - cattle-fleet-local-system
                  - cattle-fleet-system
                  - cattle-logging-system
                  - cattle-monitoring-system
                  - cattle-provisioning-capi-system
                  - cattle-system
                  - fleet-local
                  - harvester-system
                  - kube-system
                  - local
                  - longhorn-system
                thresholds:
                  cpu: 30
                  memory: 30
                targetThresholds:
                  cpu: 50
                  memory: 50
            plugins:
              balance:
                enabled:
                - LowNodeUtilization
----

** `deschedulingInterval`: How often the Descheduler runs. The default value is `5m` (5 minutes).
** `maxNoOfPodsToEvictPerNode`: Maximum number of pods that can be evicted during a single descheduling cycle. The default is value is `5`.
** `evictableNamespaces.exclude`: Namespaces to be excluded from eviction. By default, the system namespaces are excluded to protect critical system components.
** `targetThresholds`: Upper utilization limit for monitored resources. Nodes whose usage exceeds this threshold are marked as overutilized, triggering pod eviction to reduce their load. Default values are automatically applied for CPU (`50`) and memory (`50`), but you can define values for other monitored resources.
** `thresholds`: Lower utilization limit for monitored resources. Pods evicted from overutilized nodes are rescheduled only to nodes whose usage is currently below this threshold. Default values are automatically applied for CPU (`30`) and memory (`30`), but you can define values for other monitored resources.

== Disabling the add-on

. On the {harvester-product-name} UI, go to *Advanced -> Add-ons*.

. Select *descheduler (Experimental)*, and then select *⋮ -> Disable*.

== Node usage

Check the Descheduler logs for information about node usage.

[,shell]
----
> kubectl logs -n kube-system -l app.kubernetes.io/name=descheduler -f
I1209 02:06:21.067225       1 lownodeutilization.go:210] "Node has been classified" category="underutilized" node="hp-131-tink-system" usage={"cpu":"4583m","memory":"3075Mi","pods":"25"} usagePercentage={"cpu":20,"memory":2,"pods":13}
I1209 02:06:21.067328       1 lownodeutilization.go:210] "Node has been classified" category="underutilized" node="hp-121-tink-system" usage={"cpu":"5198m","memory":"4023Mi","pods":"30"} usagePercentage={"cpu":23,"memory":3,"pods":15}
I1209 02:06:21.067355       1 lownodeutilization.go:210] "Node has been classified" category="overutilized" node="hp-119-tink-system" usage={"cpu":"10490m","memory":"109333705514","pods":"81"} usagePercentage={"cpu":46,"memory":81,"pods":41}
----

== Troubleshooting

The Descheduler works on pods instead of virtual machines. If a virtual machine that you expect to be evicted is not, check the Descheduler logs.

Example:

[,shell]
----
> kubectl logs -n kube-system -l app.kubernetes.io/name=descheduler -f
I1209 02:06:21.068059       1 defaultevictor.go:228] "pod does not fit on any other node because of nodeSelector(s), Taint(s), or nodes marked as unschedulable" pod="default/virt-launcher-vm-3-w866s"
----

In this example, the virtual machine was manually migrated, so the related pod's specification contains a restrictive node selector. The Descheduler is unable to evict this pod because the node selector would prevent the pod from being successfully run on any other available node in the cluster.
