versions/v1.6/modules/en/pages/virtual-machines/live-migration.adoc, before:

= Live Migration
:revdate: 2025-09-16
:page-revdate: {revdate}

Live migration means moving a virtual machine to a different host without downtime. A couple of comprehensive processes and tasks are done under the hood to fulfill the live migration.

== Prerequisites

Live migration can occur when the following requirements are met:

* In addition to the current node, the cluster has at least one schedulable node that matches all the virtual machine's scheduling rules.

* The migration target node has enough available resources to host the virtual machine.

* The CPU, memory, xref:virtual-machines/create-vm.adoc#_volumes[volumes], devices and other resources requested by the virtual machine can be copied or rebuilt on the migration target node while the source virtual machine is still running.

== Non-Migratable Virtual Machines

A virtual machine is considered non-migratable if it has one or more of the following:

* Volume with the following properties:

** Type: `CD-ROM` or `Container Disk`
** Access mode: `ReadWriteOnce`
** StorageClass replica count: `1` (This is not detected in all cases.)

* Host devices passthrough such as `PCI` and `vGPU`

* xref:virtual-machines/create-vm.adoc#_node_scheduling[Node selector] that binds the virtual machine to a specific node

* xref:virtual-machines/create-vm.adoc#_node_scheduling[Scheduling rules] that match only one node.

The following are examples of rule conditions that are checked at runtime:

* The virtual machine is attached to a cluster network that covers only one node.
* CPU pinning is enabled on the virtual machine, and CPU Manager is only enabled on one node.

For more information, see xref:virtual-machines/create-vm.adoc#_automatically_applied_affinity_rules[Automatically Applied Affinity Rules].

[NOTE]
====
To live-migrate the virtual machine, you must first remove non-migratable devices and add schedulable nodes.
====

== Live-Migratable Virtual Machines

Virtual machines that do not have the properties of non-migratable virtual machines can be live-migrated.

== How Migration Works

=== `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` Object

When a virtual machine migration action is triggered, a `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` object is created to track the state and progress of the operation. The Harvester controller correlates the `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` object with the `VirtualMachineInstance` object by ensuring the instance object's identity is reflected in the migration object.

In the following example, the virtual machine named `demo` has an associated migration object. The UID of this object is added to the instance object's `.status.migrationState.migrationUID` property during migration.

[bash, shell]
----
$ kubectl get vmi demo -ojsonpath={.status.migrationState.migrationUID}

1d6d7273-275d-48e0-bb76-62e240b42aaf
----

The instance object's name is added to the migration object's `.spec.vmiName` property.

[bash, shell]
----
$ kubectl get vmim demo-6crrk -ojsonpath={.spec.vmiName}

demo
----

The format of the `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` object's name varies depending on whether the migration is manually or automatically triggered.

When a migration is triggered from the **Migrate** xref:#_starting_a_migration[menu item], the `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` object's name is prefixed with the virtual 
machine's name and a random string (for example, `vm1-a3d1f`).

When a migration is triggered xref:#_automatically_triggered_batch_migration[automatically], the `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` object's name is prefixed with `kubevirt-evacuation-` and a random string (for example, `kubevirt-evacuation-9c485`).

[NOTE]
====
The {harvester-product-name} UI does not specify the source of the migration. You must check the name of `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` object to retrieve this information.
====

=== CPU Model Matching

Each node has multiple CPU models that are labeled with different keys.

* Primary CPU model: `+host-model-cpu.node.kubevirt.io/{cpu-model}+`
* Supported CPU models: `+cpu-model.node.kubevirt.io/{cpu-model}+`
* Supported CPU models for migration: `+cpu-model-migration.node.kubevirt.io/{cpu-model}+`

During live migration, the controller checks the value of `spec.domain.cpu.model` in the VirtualMachineInstance (VMI) CR, which is derived from `spec.template.spec.domain.cpu.model` in the VirtualMachine (VM) CR. If the value of `spec.template.spec.domain.cpu.model` is not set, the controller uses the default value `host-model`.

When `host-model` is used, the process fetches the value of the primary CPU model and fills `spec.NodeSelectors` of the newly created pod with the label `+cpu-model-migration.node.kubevirt.io/{cpu-model}+`.

Alternatively, you can customize the CPU model in `spec.domain.cpu.model`. For example, if the CPU model is `XYZ`, the process fills `spec.NodeSelectors` of the newly created pod with the label `cpu-model.node.kubevirt.io/XYZ`.

However, `host-model` only allows migration of the VM to a node with same CPU model. For more information, see xref:#_limitations[Limitations].

== Starting a Migration

. Go to the *Virtual Machines* page.
. Find the virtual machine that you want to migrate and select *⋮ > Migrate*.
. Choose the node to which you want to migrate the virtual machine. Click *Apply*.

image::vm/migrate-action.png[]

[NOTE]
====
The **Migrate** menu option is not available in the following situations:

* The cluster has only one node.
* The virtual machine is [non-migratable](#non-migratable-virtual-machines).
* The virtual machine already has a running or pending migration process.
====

image::vm/migrate.png[]

== Aborting a Migration

. Go to the *Virtual Machines* page.
. Find the virtual machine in migrating status that you want to abort. Select *⋮ -> Abort Migration*.

[NOTE]
====
* The **Abort Migration** menu item is available when the virtual machine already has a running or pending migration process.

* Do not use this UI feature if the migration process was created using xref:#_automatically_triggered_batch_migration[batch migration]. For more information, see xref:#_virtualmachineinstancemigration_object[`VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` Object].
====

== Automatically Triggered Batch Migration

xref:virtual-machines/live-migration.adoc#_live_migratable_virtual_machines[Harvester upgrades] and xref:hosts/hosts.adoc#_node_maintenance[node maintenance] both benefit from live migration. The underlying process, which is called *batch migration*, is slightly different from the one described in xref:#_starting_a_migration[Starting a Migration]. This process involves the following steps:

. The controller watches a dedicated taint on the node object.

. The controller creates a `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` object for each xref:#_live_migratable_virtual_machines[live-migratable virtual machine] on the current node.

. The migrations are queued, scheduled internally, and processed in batches. The {harvester-product-name} UI shows the statuses **Pending migration** and **Migrating** to indicate progress.

. The controller monitors the processing and waits until all are completed or have timed out.

== Migration Timeouts

=== Completion Timeout

The live migration process copies virtual machine memory pages and disk blocks to the destination. In certain cases, the virtual machine can write to different memory pages or disk blocks at a higher rate than these can be copied. As a result, the migration process is prevented from being completed in a reasonable amount of time.

Live migration is be aborted if it exceeds the completion timeout of 800s per GiB of data. For example, a virtual machine with 8 GiB of memory times out after 6400 seconds.

=== Progress Timeout

Live migration is also aborted when copying memory does not make any progress in 150s.

== Limitations

=== CPU models

`host-model` only allows migration of the virtual machine to a node with same CPU model. However, specifying a CPU model is not always required. When no CPU model is specified, you must shut down the virtual machine, assign a CPU model that is supported by all nodes, and then restart the virtual machine.

Example:

* A node: `host-model-cpu.node.kubevirt.io/XYZ` `cpu-model-migration.node.kubevirt.io/XYZ` `cpu-model.node.kubevirt.io/123`
* B node: `host-model-cpu.node.kubevirt.io/ABC` `cpu-model-migration.node.kubevirt.io/ABC` `cpu-model.node.kubevirt.io/123`

Migrating a virtual machine with `host-model` is not possible because the values of `host-model-cpu.node.kubevirt.io` are not identical. However, both nodes support the `123` CPU model, so you can migrate any virtual machine with the `123` CPU model using either of the following methods:

* Cluster level: Run `kubectl edit kubevirts.kubevirt.io -n harvester-system` and add `spec.configuration.cpuModel: "123"`. This change also affects newly created virtual machines.
* Individual virtual machines: Modify the virtual machine configuration to include `spec.template.spec.domain.cpu.model: "123"`.

Both methods require you to restart the VMs. If you are certain that all nodes in the cluster support a specific CPU model, you can define this at the cluster level before creating any VMs. In doing so, you eliminate the need to restart the VMs (to assign the CPU model) during live migration.

=== Network outages

Live migration is highly sensitive to network outages. Any interruption to the network connection between the source and target nodes during migration can have a variety of outcomes.

==== `mgmt` network outages

Live migration via `mgmt` (the built-in cluster network) relies on the availability of the management interfaces on the source and target nodes. `mgmt` network outages are considered critical because they not only disrupt the migration process but also affect overall node management.

==== VM migration network outages

A xref:networking/vm-network.adoc[VM migration network] isolates migration traffic from other network activities. While this setup improves migration performance and reliability, especially in environments with high network traffic, it also makes the migration process dependent on the availability of that specific network.

An outage on the VM migration network can affect the migration process in the following ways:

* Brief interruption: The migration process abruptly stops. Once connectivity is restored, the process resumes and can be completed successfully, albeit with a delay.
* Extended outage: The migration operation times out and fails. The source virtual machine continues to run normally on the source node.

The migration process runs in peer-to-peer mode, which means that the libvirt daemon (libvirtd) on the source node controls the migration by calling the destination daemon directly. A built-in keepalive mechanism ensures that the client connection remains active during the migration process. If the connection remains inactive for a specific period, it is closed, and the migration process is aborted.

By default, the keepalive interval is set to 5 seconds, and the retry count is set to 5. Given these default values, the migration process is aborted if the connection is inactive for 30 seconds. However, the migration may fail earlier or later, depending on the actual cluster conditions.

Commit message:

Add text from PR 950 (Live migration issue)
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.6/modules/en/pages/virtual-machines/live-migration.adoc, after:

= Live Migration
:revdate: 2026-01-27
:page-revdate: {revdate}

Live migration means moving a virtual machine to a different host without downtime. A couple of comprehensive processes and tasks are done under the hood to fulfill the live migration.

== Prerequisites

Live migration can occur when the following requirements are met:

* In addition to the current node, the cluster has at least one schedulable node that matches all the virtual machine's scheduling rules.

* The migration target node has enough available resources to host the virtual machine.

* The CPU, memory, xref:virtual-machines/create-vm.adoc#_volumes[volumes], devices and other resources requested by the virtual machine can be copied or rebuilt on the migration target node while the source virtual machine is still running.

== Non-Migratable Virtual Machines

A virtual machine is considered non-migratable if it has one or more of the following:

* Volume with the following properties:

** Type: `CD-ROM` or `Container Disk`
** Access mode: `ReadWriteOnce`
** StorageClass replica count: `1` (This is not detected in all cases.)

* Host devices passthrough such as `PCI` and `vGPU`

* xref:virtual-machines/create-vm.adoc#_node_scheduling[Node selector] that binds the virtual machine to a specific node

* xref:virtual-machines/create-vm.adoc#_node_scheduling[Scheduling rules] that match only one node.

The following are examples of rule conditions that are checked at runtime:

* The virtual machine is attached to a cluster network that covers only one node.
* CPU pinning is enabled on the virtual machine, and CPU Manager is only enabled on one node.

For more information, see xref:virtual-machines/create-vm.adoc#_automatically_applied_affinity_rules[Automatically Applied Affinity Rules].

[NOTE]
====
To live-migrate the virtual machine, you must first remove non-migratable devices and add schedulable nodes.
====

== Live-Migratable Virtual Machines

Virtual machines that do not have the properties of non-migratable virtual machines can be live-migrated.

== How Migration Works

=== `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` Object

When a virtual machine migration action is triggered, a `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` object is created to track the state and progress of the operation. The Harvester controller correlates the `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` object with the `VirtualMachineInstance` object by ensuring the instance object's identity is reflected in the migration object.

In the following example, the virtual machine named `demo` has an associated migration object. The UID of this object is added to the instance object's `.status.migrationState.migrationUID` property during migration.

[bash, shell]
----
$ kubectl get vmi demo -ojsonpath={.status.migrationState.migrationUID}

1d6d7273-275d-48e0-bb76-62e240b42aaf
----

The instance object's name is added to the migration object's `.spec.vmiName` property.

[bash, shell]
----
$ kubectl get vmim demo-6crrk -ojsonpath={.spec.vmiName}

demo
----

The format of the `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` object's name varies depending on whether the migration is manually or automatically triggered.

When a migration is triggered from the **Migrate** xref:#_starting_a_migration[menu item], the `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` object's name is prefixed with the virtual 
machine's name and a random string (for example, `vm1-a3d1f`).

When a migration is triggered xref:#_automatically_triggered_batch_migration[automatically], the `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` object's name is prefixed with `kubevirt-evacuation-` and a random string (for example, `kubevirt-evacuation-9c485`).

[NOTE]
====
The {harvester-product-name} UI does not specify the source of the migration. You must check the name of `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` object to retrieve this information.
====

=== CPU Model Matching

Each node has multiple CPU models that are labeled with different keys.

* Primary CPU model: `+host-model-cpu.node.kubevirt.io/{cpu-model}+`
* Supported CPU models: `+cpu-model.node.kubevirt.io/{cpu-model}+`
* Supported CPU models for migration: `+cpu-model-migration.node.kubevirt.io/{cpu-model}+`

During live migration, the controller checks the value of `spec.domain.cpu.model` in the VirtualMachineInstance (VMI) CR, which is derived from `spec.template.spec.domain.cpu.model` in the VirtualMachine (VM) CR. If the value of `spec.template.spec.domain.cpu.model` is not set, the controller uses the default value `host-model`.

When `host-model` is used, the process fetches the value of the primary CPU model and fills `spec.NodeSelectors` of the newly created pod with the label `+cpu-model-migration.node.kubevirt.io/{cpu-model}+`.

Alternatively, you can customize the CPU model in `spec.domain.cpu.model`. For example, if the CPU model is `XYZ`, the process fills `spec.NodeSelectors` of the newly created pod with the label `cpu-model.node.kubevirt.io/XYZ`.

However, `host-model` only allows migration of the VM to a node with same CPU model. For more information, see xref:#_limitations[Limitations].

== Starting a Migration

. Go to the *Virtual Machines* page.
. Find the virtual machine that you want to migrate and select *⋮ > Migrate*.
. Choose the node to which you want to migrate the virtual machine. Click *Apply*.

image::vm/migrate-action.png[]

[NOTE]
====
The **Migrate** menu option is not available in the following situations:

* The cluster has only one node.
* The virtual machine is [non-migratable](#non-migratable-virtual-machines).
* The virtual machine already has a running or pending migration process.
====

image::vm/migrate.png[]

[CAUTION]
====
Due to a https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/user_workloads/vm_rollout_strategies/#restartrequired-condition[limitation] in the VM rollout strategy implementation, virtual machines that are in the _pending restart_ state may be live-migrated to a random node instead of the specified target node. The virtual machines must be restarted for subsequent node-specific live migrations to work.
====

== Aborting a Migration

. Go to the *Virtual Machines* page.
. Find the virtual machine in migrating status that you want to abort. Select *⋮ -> Abort Migration*.

[NOTE]
====
* The **Abort Migration** menu item is available when the virtual machine already has a running or pending migration process.

* Do not use this UI feature if the migration process was created using xref:#_automatically_triggered_batch_migration[batch migration]. For more information, see xref:#_virtualmachineinstancemigration_object[`VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` Object].
====

== Automatically Triggered Batch Migration

xref:virtual-machines/live-migration.adoc#_live_migratable_virtual_machines[Harvester upgrades] and xref:hosts/hosts.adoc#_node_maintenance[node maintenance] both benefit from live migration. The underlying process, which is called *batch migration*, is slightly different from the one described in xref:#_starting_a_migration[Starting a Migration]. This process involves the following steps:

. The controller watches a dedicated taint on the node object.

. The controller creates a `VirtualMachineInstanceMigration` object for each xref:#_live_migratable_virtual_machines[live-migratable virtual machine] on the current node.

. The migrations are queued, scheduled internally, and processed in batches. The {harvester-product-name} UI shows the statuses **Pending migration** and **Migrating** to indicate progress.

. The controller monitors the processing and waits until all are completed or have timed out.

== Migration Timeouts

=== Completion Timeout

The live migration process copies virtual machine memory pages and disk blocks to the destination. In certain cases, the virtual machine can write to different memory pages or disk blocks at a higher rate than these can be copied. As a result, the migration process is prevented from being completed in a reasonable amount of time.

Live migration is be aborted if it exceeds the completion timeout of 800s per GiB of data. For example, a virtual machine with 8 GiB of memory times out after 6400 seconds.

=== Progress Timeout

Live migration is also aborted when copying memory does not make any progress in 150s.

== Limitations

=== CPU models

`host-model` only allows migration of the virtual machine to a node with same CPU model. However, specifying a CPU model is not always required. When no CPU model is specified, you must shut down the virtual machine, assign a CPU model that is supported by all nodes, and then restart the virtual machine.

Example:

* A node: `host-model-cpu.node.kubevirt.io/XYZ` `cpu-model-migration.node.kubevirt.io/XYZ` `cpu-model.node.kubevirt.io/123`
* B node: `host-model-cpu.node.kubevirt.io/ABC` `cpu-model-migration.node.kubevirt.io/ABC` `cpu-model.node.kubevirt.io/123`

Migrating a virtual machine with `host-model` is not possible because the values of `host-model-cpu.node.kubevirt.io` are not identical. However, both nodes support the `123` CPU model, so you can migrate any virtual machine with the `123` CPU model using either of the following methods:

* Cluster level: Run `kubectl edit kubevirts.kubevirt.io -n harvester-system` and add `spec.configuration.cpuModel: "123"`. This change also affects newly created virtual machines.
* Individual virtual machines: Modify the virtual machine configuration to include `spec.template.spec.domain.cpu.model: "123"`.

Both methods require you to restart the VMs. If you are certain that all nodes in the cluster support a specific CPU model, you can define this at the cluster level before creating any VMs. In doing so, you eliminate the need to restart the VMs (to assign the CPU model) during live migration.

=== Network outages

Live migration is highly sensitive to network outages. Any interruption to the network connection between the source and target nodes during migration can have a variety of outcomes.

==== `mgmt` network outages

Live migration via `mgmt` (the built-in cluster network) relies on the availability of the management interfaces on the source and target nodes. `mgmt` network outages are considered critical because they not only disrupt the migration process but also affect overall node management.

==== VM migration network outages

A xref:networking/vm-network.adoc[VM migration network] isolates migration traffic from other network activities. While this setup improves migration performance and reliability, especially in environments with high network traffic, it also makes the migration process dependent on the availability of that specific network.

An outage on the VM migration network can affect the migration process in the following ways:

* Brief interruption: The migration process abruptly stops. Once connectivity is restored, the process resumes and can be completed successfully, albeit with a delay.
* Extended outage: The migration operation times out and fails. The source virtual machine continues to run normally on the source node.

The migration process runs in peer-to-peer mode, which means that the libvirt daemon (libvirtd) on the source node controls the migration by calling the destination daemon directly. A built-in keepalive mechanism ensures that the client connection remains active during the migration process. If the connection remains inactive for a specific period, it is closed, and the migration process is aborted.

By default, the keepalive interval is set to 5 seconds, and the retry count is set to 5. Given these default values, the migration process is aborted if the connection is inactive for 30 seconds. However, the migration may fail earlier or later, depending on the actual cluster conditions.
