versions/v1.4/modules/en/pages/installation-setup/airgap.adoc, before:

= Air-Gapped Environment

This section describes how to use {harvester-product-name} in an air gapped environment. Some use cases could be where {harvester-product-name} will be installed offline, behind a firewall, or behind a proxy.

The ISO image contains all the packages to make it work in an air gapped environment.

== Working Behind an HTTP Proxy

In some environments, the connection to external services, from the servers or VMs, requires an HTTP(S) proxy.

=== Configure an HTTP Proxy During Installation

You can configure the HTTP(S) proxy during the xref:../installation-setup/methods/iso-install.adoc[ISO installation] as shown in picture below:

image::install/iso-proxy.png[iso-proxy]

=== Configure an HTTP Proxy

You can configure the HTTP(S) proxy using the UI.

. Go to the settings page of the UI.
. Find the `http-proxy` setting, click *⋮ > Edit setting*
. Enter the value(s) for `http-proxy`, `https-proxy` and `no-proxy`.

image::proxy-setting.png[proxy-setting]

[NOTE]
====
{harvester-product-name} appends necessary addresses to user configured `no-proxy` to ensure the internal traffic works.
i.e., `localhost,127.0.0.1,0.0.0.0,10.0.0.0/8,longhorn-system,cattle-system,cattle-system.svc,harvester-system,.svc,.cluster.local`. `harvester-system` was added into the list since v1.1.2.

When the nodes in the cluster do not use a proxy to communicate with each other, the CIDR needs to be added to `http-proxy.noProxy` after the first node is installed successfully. Please refer to xref:../troubleshooting/cluster.adoc#_fail_to_deploy_a_multi_node_cluster_due_to_incorrect_http_proxy_setting[fail to deploy a multi-node cluster].
====

== Guest Cluster Images

All necessary images to install and run {harvester-product-name} are conveniently packaged into the ISO, eliminating the need to pre-load images on bare-metal nodes. A {harvester-product-name} cluster manages them independently and effectively behind the scenes.

However, it's essential to understand a guest K8s cluster (e.g., RKE2 cluster) created by the xref:../integrations/rancher/node-driver/node-driver.adoc[Harvester node driver] is a distinct entity from a {harvester-product-name} cluster. A guest cluster operates within VMs and requires pulling images either from the internet or a https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/how-to-guides/new-user-guides/authentication-permissions-and-global-configuration/global-default-private-registry#configure-a-private-registry-with-credentials-when-creating-a-cluster[private registry].

If the *Cloud Provider* option is configured to {harvester-product-name} in a guest Kubernetes cluster, it deploys the Harvester cloud provider and Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver.

image::cluster-registry.png[cluster-registry]

As a result, we recommend monitoring each https://github.com/rancher/rke2/releases[RKE2 release] in your air gapped environment and pulling the required images into your private registry. Please refer to the https://www.suse.com/suse-harvester/support-matrix/all-supported-versions/harvester-v1-1-2/[Support Matrix page] for the best Harvester cloud provider and CSI driver capability support.

== Integrate with an External Rancher

Rancher determines the `rancher-agent` image to be used whenever a {harvester-product-name} cluster is imported. If the image is not included in the {harvester-product-name} ISO, it must be pulled from the internet and loaded on each node, or pushed to the {harvester-product-name} cluster's registry.

[,bash]
----
# Run the following commands on a computer that can access both the internet and the {harvester-product-name} cluster.
docker pull rancher/rancher-agent:<version>
docker save rancher/rancher-agent:<version> -o rancher-agent-<version>.tar

# Copy the image TAR file to the air-gapped environment.
scp rancher-agent-<version>.tar rancher@<harvester-node-ip>:/tmp

# Use SSH to connect to the {harvester-product-name} node, and then load the image.
ssh rancher@<harvester-node-ip>
sudo -i
docker load -i /tmp/rancher-agent-<version>.tar
----

== Harvester UI Extension with Rancher Integration

The Harvester UI Extension is required to access the Harvester UI in Rancher v2.10.x and later versions. However, installing the extension over the network is not possible in air-gapped environments, so you must perform the following workaround:

. Pull the image https://hub.docker.com/r/rancher/ui-plugin-catalog/tags[rancher/ui-plugin-catalog] with the newest tag.

. On the Rancher UI, go to *Extensions*, and then select *⋮ -> Manage Extension Catalogs*.
+
image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-01.png[Rancher UI - Manage Extension Catalogs]

. Specify the required information.
+
image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-02.png[Rancher UI - Import Extension Catalog]
+
* *Catalog Image Reference*: Specify the private registry URL and image repository.
* *Image Pull Secrets*: Specify the secret used to access the registry when a username and password are required. You must create that secret in the `cattle-ui-plugin-system` namespace. Use either `kubernetes.io/dockercfg` or `kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson` as the value of `type`.
+
Example:
+
[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: my-registry-secret-rancher
  namespace: cattle-ui-plugin-system
type: kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
data:
  .dockerconfigjson: {base64 encoded data}
----

. Click *Load*, and then allow some time for the extension to be loaded.
+
image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-03.png[Rancher UI - Extension Catalogs]

. On the *Available* tab, locate the extension named *Harvester*, and then click *Install*.
+
image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-04.png[Rancher UI - Available Extensions]

. Select the version that matches the Harvester cluster, and then click *Install*.
+
For more information, see the xref:../integrations/rancher/harvester-ui-extension.adoc#_support_matrix[Harvester UI Extension Support Matrix].
+
image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-05.png[Rancher UI - Select Harvester UI Extension Version]
+
image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-06.png[Rancher UI - Harvester UI Extension Installed]

. Go to *Virtualization Management -> Harvester Clusters*.
+
You can now import Harvester clusters and access the Harvester UI.
+
image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-07.png[Rancher UI - Harvester Clusters]

== Troubleshooting

=== UI Extensions Do Not Appear

If the *Extensions* screen is empty, go to *Repositories* (*⋮ -> Manage Repositories*) and then click *Refresh*.

image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-04-01.png[Rancher UI - Manage Repositories]

image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-04-02.png[Rancher UI - Connection Refused Error]

image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-04-03.png[Rancher UI - Refresh Repositories Screen]

image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-04-04.png[Rancher UI - Repositories]

=== Installation Failed

If you encounter an error during installation, check the `uiplugins` resource.

image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-05-01.png[Rancher UI - Harvester UI Extension Installation Error]

Example:

[,shell]
----
bash-4.4# k get uiplugins -A
NAMESPACE                 NAME        PLUGIN NAME   VERSION   STATE
cattle-ui-plugin-system   harvester   harvester     1.0.3     pending
bash-4.4# k get uiplugins harvester --namespace cattle-ui-plugin-system -o yaml
apiVersion: catalog.cattle.io/v1
kind: UIPlugin
metadata:
  # skip
  name: harvester
  namespace: cattle-ui-plugin-system
spec:
  plugin:
    endpoint: http://ui-plugin-catalog-svc.cattle-ui-plugin-system:8080/plugin/harvester-1.0.3
----

Ensure that `svc.namespace` is accessible from Rancher. If that endpoint is not accessible, you can directly use a cluster IP such as `10.43.33.58:8080/plugin/harvester-1.0.3`.

Commit message:

Add text per PR 741 (Time synchronization)
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.4/modules/en/pages/installation-setup/airgap.adoc, after:

= Air-Gapped Environment

This section describes how to use {harvester-product-name} in an air gapped environment. Some use cases could be where {harvester-product-name} will be installed offline, behind a firewall, or behind a proxy.

The ISO image contains all the packages to make it work in an air gapped environment.

== Working Behind an HTTP Proxy

In some environments, the connection to external services, from the servers or VMs, requires an HTTP(S) proxy.

=== Configure an HTTP Proxy During Installation

You can configure the HTTP(S) proxy during the xref:../installation-setup/methods/iso-install.adoc[ISO installation] as shown in picture below:

image::install/iso-proxy.png[iso-proxy]

=== Configure an HTTP Proxy

You can configure the HTTP(S) proxy using the UI.

. Go to the settings page of the UI.
. Find the `http-proxy` setting, click *⋮ > Edit setting*
. Enter the value(s) for `http-proxy`, `https-proxy` and `no-proxy`.

image::proxy-setting.png[proxy-setting]

[NOTE]
====
{harvester-product-name} appends necessary addresses to user configured `no-proxy` to ensure the internal traffic works.
i.e., `localhost,127.0.0.1,0.0.0.0,10.0.0.0/8,longhorn-system,cattle-system,cattle-system.svc,harvester-system,.svc,.cluster.local`. `harvester-system` was added into the list since v1.1.2.

When the nodes in the cluster do not use a proxy to communicate with each other, the CIDR needs to be added to `http-proxy.noProxy` after the first node is installed successfully. Please refer to xref:../troubleshooting/cluster.adoc#_fail_to_deploy_a_multi_node_cluster_due_to_incorrect_http_proxy_setting[fail to deploy a multi-node cluster].
====

== Guest Cluster Images

All necessary images to install and run {harvester-product-name} are conveniently packaged into the ISO, eliminating the need to pre-load images on bare-metal nodes. A {harvester-product-name} cluster manages them independently and effectively behind the scenes.

However, it's essential to understand a guest K8s cluster (e.g., RKE2 cluster) created by the xref:../integrations/rancher/node-driver/node-driver.adoc[Harvester node driver] is a distinct entity from a {harvester-product-name} cluster. A guest cluster operates within VMs and requires pulling images either from the internet or a https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/how-to-guides/new-user-guides/authentication-permissions-and-global-configuration/global-default-private-registry#configure-a-private-registry-with-credentials-when-creating-a-cluster[private registry].

If the *Cloud Provider* option is configured to {harvester-product-name} in a guest Kubernetes cluster, it deploys the Harvester cloud provider and Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver.

image::cluster-registry.png[cluster-registry]

As a result, we recommend monitoring each https://github.com/rancher/rke2/releases[RKE2 release] in your air gapped environment and pulling the required images into your private registry. Please refer to the https://www.suse.com/suse-harvester/support-matrix/all-supported-versions/harvester-v1-1-2/[Support Matrix page] for the best Harvester cloud provider and CSI driver capability support.

== Integrate with an External Rancher

Rancher determines the `rancher-agent` image to be used whenever a {harvester-product-name} cluster is imported. If the image is not included in the {harvester-product-name} ISO, it must be pulled from the internet and loaded on each node, or pushed to the {harvester-product-name} cluster's registry.

[,bash]
----
# Run the following commands on a computer that can access both the internet and the {harvester-product-name} cluster.
docker pull rancher/rancher-agent:<version>
docker save rancher/rancher-agent:<version> -o rancher-agent-<version>.tar

# Copy the image TAR file to the air-gapped environment.
scp rancher-agent-<version>.tar rancher@<harvester-node-ip>:/tmp

# Use SSH to connect to the {harvester-product-name} node, and then load the image.
ssh rancher@<harvester-node-ip>
sudo -i
docker load -i /tmp/rancher-agent-<version>.tar
----

== Harvester UI Extension with Rancher Integration

The Harvester UI Extension is required to access the Harvester UI in Rancher v2.10.x and later versions. However, installing the extension over the network is not possible in air-gapped environments, so you must perform the following workaround:

. Pull the image https://hub.docker.com/r/rancher/ui-plugin-catalog/tags[rancher/ui-plugin-catalog] with the newest tag.

. On the Rancher UI, go to *Extensions*, and then select *⋮ -> Manage Extension Catalogs*.
+
image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-01.png[Rancher UI - Manage Extension Catalogs]

. Specify the required information.
+
image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-02.png[Rancher UI - Import Extension Catalog]
+
* *Catalog Image Reference*: Specify the private registry URL and image repository.
* *Image Pull Secrets*: Specify the secret used to access the registry when a username and password are required. You must create that secret in the `cattle-ui-plugin-system` namespace. Use either `kubernetes.io/dockercfg` or `kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson` as the value of `type`.
+
Example:
+
[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: my-registry-secret-rancher
  namespace: cattle-ui-plugin-system
type: kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
data:
  .dockerconfigjson: {base64 encoded data}
----

. Click *Load*, and then allow some time for the extension to be loaded.
+
image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-03.png[Rancher UI - Extension Catalogs]

. On the *Available* tab, locate the extension named *Harvester*, and then click *Install*.
+
image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-04.png[Rancher UI - Available Extensions]

. Select the version that matches the Harvester cluster, and then click *Install*.
+
For more information, see the xref:../integrations/rancher/harvester-ui-extension.adoc#_support_matrix[Harvester UI Extension Support Matrix].
+
image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-05.png[Rancher UI - Select Harvester UI Extension Version]
+
image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-06.png[Rancher UI - Harvester UI Extension Installed]

. Go to *Virtualization Management -> Harvester Clusters*.
+
You can now import Harvester clusters and access the Harvester UI.
+
image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-07.png[Rancher UI - Harvester Clusters]

== Time requirements

A reliable Network Time Protocol (NTP) server is critical for maintaining the correct system time across all nodes in a Kubernetes cluster, especially when running {harvester-product-name}. Kubernetes relies on etcd, a distributed key-value store, which requires precise time synchronization to ensure data consistency and prevent issues with leader election, log replication, and cluster stability.

In an air-gapped environment, where external time sources are unavailable, maintaining an accurate and synchronized time becomes even more crucial. Without proper time synchronization, cluster nodes may experience authentication failures, scheduling issues, or even data corruption. To mitigate these risks, organizations should deploy a robust, internal NTP server that synchronizes time across all systems within the network.

Ensuring accurate and consistent time across the cluster is essential for reliability, security, and overall system integrity.

== Troubleshooting

=== UI Extensions Do Not Appear

If the *Extensions* screen is empty, go to *Repositories* (*⋮ -> Manage Repositories*) and then click *Refresh*.

image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-04-01.png[Rancher UI - Manage Repositories]

image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-04-02.png[Rancher UI - Connection Refused Error]

image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-04-03.png[Rancher UI - Refresh Repositories Screen]

image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-04-04.png[Rancher UI - Repositories]

=== Installation Failed

If you encounter an error during installation, check the `uiplugins` resource.

image::air-gapped/air-gappted-harvester-ui-extension-05-01.png[Rancher UI - Harvester UI Extension Installation Error]

Example:

[,shell]
----
bash-4.4# k get uiplugins -A
NAMESPACE                 NAME        PLUGIN NAME   VERSION   STATE
cattle-ui-plugin-system   harvester   harvester     1.0.3     pending
bash-4.4# k get uiplugins harvester --namespace cattle-ui-plugin-system -o yaml
apiVersion: catalog.cattle.io/v1
kind: UIPlugin
metadata:
  # skip
  name: harvester
  namespace: cattle-ui-plugin-system
spec:
  plugin:
    endpoint: http://ui-plugin-catalog-svc.cattle-ui-plugin-system:8080/plugin/harvester-1.0.3
----

Ensure that `svc.namespace` is accessible from Rancher. If that endpoint is not accessible, you can directly use a cluster IP such as `10.43.33.58:8080/plugin/harvester-1.0.3`.
