versions/v1.5/modules/en/pages/upgrades/upgrades.adoc, before:

= Upgrades

== Upgrade support matrix

The following table shows the upgrade path of all supported versions.

|===
| Upgrade from version | Supported new version(s)

| xref:./v1-4-1-to-v1-4-2.adoc[v1.4.1]
| v1.4.2

| xref:./v1-4-0-to-v1-4-1.adoc[v1.4.0]
| v1.4.1

| xref:./v1-3-1-to-v1-3-2.adoc[v1.3.1]
| v1.3.2

| xref:./v1-2-2-to-v1-3-1.adoc[v1.2.2/v1.3.0]
| v1.3.1

| xref:./v1-2-1-to-v1-2-2.adoc[v1.2.1]
| v1.2.2

| xref:./v1-2-0-to-v1-2-1.adoc[v1.1.2/v1.1.3/v1.2.0]
| v1.2.1
|===

== Rancher upgrade

If you are using Rancher to manage your {harvester-product-name} cluster, we recommend upgrading your Rancher server first. For more information, please refer to the https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/getting-started/installation-and-upgrade/install-upgrade-on-a-kubernetes-cluster/upgrades[Rancher upgrade guide].

For the {harvester-product-name} & Rancher support matrix, please visit our website https://www.suse.com/suse-harvester/support-matrix/all-supported-versions/[here].

[NOTE]
====
* Upgrading Rancher will not automatically upgrade your {harvester-product-name} cluster. You still need to upgrade your {harvester-product-name} cluster after upgrading Rancher.
* Upgrading Rancher will not bring your {harvester-product-name} cluster down. You can still access your {harvester-product-name} cluster using its virtual IP.
====

== Before starting an upgrade

Check out the available xref:../installation-setup/config/settings.adoc#_upgrade_config[`upgrade-config` setting] to tweak the upgrade strategies and behaviors that best suit your cluster environment.

== Start an upgrade

[CAUTION]
====
* Before you upgrade your {harvester-product-name} cluster, we highly recommend:
 ** Back up your VMs if needed.
* Do not operate the cluster during an upgrade. For example, creating new VMs, uploading new images, etc.
* Make sure your hardware meets the *preferred* xref:../installation-setup/requirements.adoc#_hardware_requirements[hardware requirements]. This is due to there will be intermediate resources consumed by an upgrade.
* Make sure each node has at least 30 GiB of free system partition space (`df -h /usr/local/`). If any node in the cluster has less than 30 GiB of free system partition space, the upgrade will be denied. Check <<Free system partition space requirement,free system partition space requirement>> for more information.
* Run the pre-check script on a {harvester-product-name} control-plane node. Please pick a script according to your cluster's version: https://github.com/harvester/upgrade-helpers/tree/main/pre-check.
* A number of one-off privileged pods will be created in the `harvester-system` and `cattle-system` namespaces to perform host-level upgrade operations. If https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/[pod security admission] is enabled, adjust these policies to allow these pods to run.
====

[CAUTION]
====
* Make sure all nodes' times are in sync. Using an NTP server to synchronize time is recommended. If an NTP server is not configured during the installation, you can manually add an NTP server *on each node*:
+
[,sh]
----
  $ sudo -i

  # Add time servers
  $ vim /etc/systemd/timesyncd.conf
  [ntp]
  NTP=0.pool.ntp.org

  # Enable and start the systemd-timesyncd
  $ timedatectl set-ntp true

  # Check status
  $ sudo timedatectl status
----
====

[CAUTION]
====
* NICs that connect to a PCI bridge might be renamed after an upgrade. Please check the https://harvesterhci.io/kb/nic-naming-scheme[knowledge base article] for further information.
====

* Make sure to read the Warning paragraph at the top of this document first.
* {harvester-product-name} checks if there are new upgradable versions periodically. If there are new versions, an upgrade button shows up on the Dashboard page.
 ** If the cluster is in an air-gapped environment, please see <<Prepare an air-gapped upgrade>> section first. You can also speed up the ISO download by using the approach in that section.
* Navigate to {harvester-product-name} GUI and click the upgrade button on the Dashboard page.
+
image::upgrade/upgrade_button.png[]

* Select a version to start upgrading.
+
image::upgrade/upgrade_select_version.png[]

* Click the circle on the top to display the upgrade progress.
+
image:upgrade/upgrade_progress.png[]

== Prepare an air-gapped upgrade

[CAUTION]
====
Make sure to check <<Upgrade support matrix>> section first about upgradable versions.
====

* Download a {harvester-product-name} ISO file from https://github.com/harvester/harvester/releases[release pages].
* Save the ISO to a local HTTP server. Assume the file is hosted at `+http://10.10.0.1/harvester.iso+`.
* Download the version file from release pages, for example, `+https://releases.rancher.com/harvester/{version}/version.yaml+`
 ** Replace `isoURL` value in the `version.yaml` file:
+
[,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
  kind: Version
  metadata:
    name: v1.0.2
    namespace: harvester-system
  spec:
    isoChecksum: <SHA-512 checksum of the ISO>
    isoURL: http://10.10.0.1/harvester.iso  # change to local ISO URL
    releaseDate: '20220512'
----
 ** Assume the file is hosted at `+http://10.10.0.1/version.yaml+`.
* Log in to one of your control plane nodes.
* Become root and create a version:
+
[,sh]
----
  rancher@node1:~> sudo -i
  rancher@node1:~> kubectl create -f http://10.10.0.1/version.yaml
----

* An upgrade button should show up on the {harvester-product-name} GUI Dashboard page.

== Free system partition space requirement

{harvester-product-name} loads images on each node during upgrades. When disk usage exceeds the kubelet's garbage collection threshold, the kubelet deletes unused images to free up space. This may cause issues in air-gapped environments because the images are not available on the node.

{harvester-product-name} v1.5.0 includes checks that ensure nodes do not trigger garbage collection after loading new images.

image::upgrade/upgrade_free_space_check.png[]

If you want to try upgrading even if the free system partition space is insufficient on some nodes, you can update the `harvesterhci.io/skipGarbageCollectionThresholdCheck: true` annotation of the `Version` object.

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
kind: Version
metadata:
  annotations:
    harvesterhci.io/skipGarbageCollectionThresholdCheck: true
  name: 1.5.0
  namespace: harvester-system
spec:
  isoChecksum: <SHA-512 checksum of the ISO>
  isoURL: http://192.168.0.181:8000/harvester-master-amd64.iso
  minUpgradableVersion: 1.4.1
  releaseDate: "20250630"
----

[CAUTION]
====
Setting a smaller value than the pre-defined value may cause the upgrade to fail and is not recommended in a production environment.
====

== Longhorn Manager Crashes Due to Backing Image Eviction

[CAUTION]
====
When upgrading to {harvester-product-name} **v1.4.x**, Longhorn Manager may crash if the `EvictionRequested` flag is set to `true` on any node or disk. This issue is caused by a https://longhorn.io/kb/troubleshooting-longhorn-manager-crashes-due-to-backing-image-eviction/[race condition] between the deletion of a disk in the backing image spec and the updating of its status.

To prevent the issue from occurring, ensure that the `EvictionRequested` flag is set to `false` before you start the upgrade process.
====

Commit message:

Add and edit text per PR 731 (Virtual machine backup compatibility)
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.5/modules/en/pages/upgrades/upgrades.adoc, after:

= Upgrades

== Upgrade support matrix

The following table shows the upgrade path of all supported versions.

|===
| Upgrade from version | Supported new version(s)

| xref:./v1-4-1-to-v1-4-2.adoc[v1.4.1]
| v1.4.2

| xref:./v1-4-0-to-v1-4-1.adoc[v1.4.0]
| v1.4.1

| xref:./v1-3-1-to-v1-3-2.adoc[v1.3.1]
| v1.3.2

| xref:./v1-2-2-to-v1-3-1.adoc[v1.2.2/v1.3.0]
| v1.3.1

| xref:./v1-2-1-to-v1-2-2.adoc[v1.2.1]
| v1.2.2

| xref:./v1-2-0-to-v1-2-1.adoc[v1.1.2/v1.1.3/v1.2.0]
| v1.2.1
|===

== Rancher upgrade

If you are using Rancher to manage your {harvester-product-name} cluster, we recommend upgrading your Rancher server first. For more information, please refer to the https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/getting-started/installation-and-upgrade/install-upgrade-on-a-kubernetes-cluster/upgrades[Rancher upgrade guide].

For the {harvester-product-name} & Rancher support matrix, please visit our website https://www.suse.com/suse-harvester/support-matrix/all-supported-versions/[here].

[NOTE]
====
* Upgrading Rancher will not automatically upgrade your {harvester-product-name} cluster. You still need to upgrade your {harvester-product-name} cluster after upgrading Rancher.
* Upgrading Rancher will not bring your {harvester-product-name} cluster down. You can still access your {harvester-product-name} cluster using its virtual IP.
====

== Before starting an upgrade

Check out the available xref:../installation-setup/config/settings.adoc#_upgrade_config[`upgrade-config` setting] to tweak the upgrade strategies and behaviors that best suit your cluster environment.

== Start an upgrade

[CAUTION]
====
* Before you upgrade your {harvester-product-name} cluster, we highly recommend:
 ** Back up your VMs if needed.
* Do not operate the cluster during an upgrade. For example, creating new VMs, uploading new images, etc.
* Make sure your hardware meets the *preferred* xref:../installation-setup/requirements.adoc#_hardware_requirements[hardware requirements]. This is due to there will be intermediate resources consumed by an upgrade.
* Make sure each node has at least 30 GiB of free system partition space (`df -h /usr/local/`). If any node in the cluster has less than 30 GiB of free system partition space, the upgrade will be denied. Check <<Free system partition space requirement,free system partition space requirement>> for more information.
* Run the pre-check script on a {harvester-product-name} control-plane node. Please pick a script according to your cluster's version: https://github.com/harvester/upgrade-helpers/tree/main/pre-check.
* A number of one-off privileged pods will be created in the `harvester-system` and `cattle-system` namespaces to perform host-level upgrade operations. If https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/[pod security admission] is enabled, adjust these policies to allow these pods to run.
====

[CAUTION]
====
* Make sure all nodes' times are in sync. Using an NTP server to synchronize time is recommended. If an NTP server is not configured during the installation, you can manually add an NTP server *on each node*:
+
[,sh]
----
  $ sudo -i

  # Add time servers
  $ vim /etc/systemd/timesyncd.conf
  [ntp]
  NTP=0.pool.ntp.org

  # Enable and start the systemd-timesyncd
  $ timedatectl set-ntp true

  # Check status
  $ sudo timedatectl status
----
====

[CAUTION]
====
* NICs that connect to a PCI bridge might be renamed after an upgrade. Please check the https://harvesterhci.io/kb/nic-naming-scheme[knowledge base article] for further information.
====

* Make sure to read the Warning paragraph at the top of this document first.
* {harvester-product-name} checks if there are new upgradable versions periodically. If there are new versions, an upgrade button shows up on the Dashboard page.
 ** If the cluster is in an air-gapped environment, please see <<Prepare an air-gapped upgrade>> section first. You can also speed up the ISO download by using the approach in that section.
* Navigate to {harvester-product-name} GUI and click the upgrade button on the Dashboard page.
+
image::upgrade/upgrade_button.png[]

* Select a version to start upgrading.
+
image::upgrade/upgrade_select_version.png[]

* Click the circle on the top to display the upgrade progress.
+
image:upgrade/upgrade_progress.png[]

== Prepare an air-gapped upgrade

[CAUTION]
====
Make sure to check <<Upgrade support matrix>> section first about upgradable versions.
====

* Download a {harvester-product-name} ISO file from https://github.com/harvester/harvester/releases[release pages].
* Save the ISO to a local HTTP server. Assume the file is hosted at `+http://10.10.0.1/harvester.iso+`.
* Download the version file from release pages, for example, `+https://releases.rancher.com/harvester/{version}/version.yaml+`
 ** Replace `isoURL` value in the `version.yaml` file:
+
[,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
  kind: Version
  metadata:
    name: v1.0.2
    namespace: harvester-system
  spec:
    isoChecksum: <SHA-512 checksum of the ISO>
    isoURL: http://10.10.0.1/harvester.iso  # change to local ISO URL
    releaseDate: '20220512'
----
 ** Assume the file is hosted at `+http://10.10.0.1/version.yaml+`.
* Log in to one of your control plane nodes.
* Become root and create a version:
+
[,sh]
----
  rancher@node1:~> sudo -i
  rancher@node1:~> kubectl create -f http://10.10.0.1/version.yaml
----

* An upgrade button should show up on the {harvester-product-name} GUI Dashboard page.

== Free system partition space requirement

{harvester-product-name} loads images on each node during upgrades. When disk usage exceeds the kubelet's garbage collection threshold, the kubelet deletes unused images to free up space. This may cause issues in air-gapped environments because the images are not available on the node.

{harvester-product-name} v1.5.0 includes checks that ensure nodes do not trigger garbage collection after loading new images.

image::upgrade/upgrade_free_space_check.png[]

If you want to try upgrading even if the free system partition space is insufficient on some nodes, you can update the `harvesterhci.io/skipGarbageCollectionThresholdCheck: true` annotation of the `Version` object.

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: harvesterhci.io/v1beta1
kind: Version
metadata:
  annotations:
    harvesterhci.io/skipGarbageCollectionThresholdCheck: true
  name: 1.5.0
  namespace: harvester-system
spec:
  isoChecksum: <SHA-512 checksum of the ISO>
  isoURL: http://192.168.0.181:8000/harvester-master-amd64.iso
  minUpgradableVersion: 1.4.1
  releaseDate: "20250630"
----

[CAUTION]
====
Setting a smaller value than the pre-defined value may cause the upgrade to fail and is not recommended in a production environment.
====

== Virtual Machine Backup Compatibility

You may encounter certain limitations when creating and restoring backups that involve external storage.

== Longhorn Manager Crashes Due to Backing Image Eviction

[CAUTION]
====
When upgrading to {harvester-product-name} **v1.4.x**, Longhorn Manager may crash if the `EvictionRequested` flag is set to `true` on any node or disk. This issue is caused by a https://longhorn.io/kb/troubleshooting-longhorn-manager-crashes-due-to-backing-image-eviction/[race condition] between the deletion of a disk in the backing image spec and the updating of its status.

To prevent the issue from occurring, ensure that the `EvictionRequested` flag is set to `false` before you start the upgrade process.
====
