versions/v1.5/modules/en/pages/upgrades/v1-4-0-to-v1-4-1.adoc, before:

= Upgrade from v1.4.0 to v1.4.1

== General Information

An *Upgrade* button appears on the *Dashboard* screen whenever a new Harvester version that you can upgrade to becomes available. For more information, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#start-an-upgrade[Start an upgrade].

For air-gapped environments, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#prepare-an-air-gapped-upgrade[Prepare an air-gapped upgrade].

[IMPORTANT]
====
Check the disk usage of the operating system images on each node before starting the upgrade. To do this, access the node via SSH and run the command `du -sh /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/*`.

Example:

----
# du -sh /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/*
1.7G    /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/active.img
3.1G    /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/passive.img
----

If `passive.img` (which represents the previously installed Harvester v1.4.0 image) consumes 3.1G of disk space, run the following commands using the root account:

----
# mount -o remount,rw /run/initramfs/cos-state
# fallocate --dig-holes /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/passive.img
# mount -o remount,ro /run/initramfs/cos-state
----

`passive.img` is converted to a sparse file, which should only consume 1.7G of disk space (the same as `active.img`). This ensures that each node has enough free space, preventing the upgrade process from becoming <<3. Upgrade is stuck in the "Waiting Reboot" state,stuck in the "Waiting Reboot" state>>.
====

=== Update Harvester UI Extension on Rancher v2.10.1

To import Harvester v1.4.1 clusters on Rancher v2.10.1, you must use **v1.0.3** of the Rancher UI extension for Harvester.

. On the Rancher UI, go to *local -> Apps -> Repositories*.

. Locate the repository named *harvester*, and then select *⋮ -> Refresh*.
+
This repository has the following properties:
+
* URL: **https://github.com/harvester/harvester-ui-extension**
* Branch: **gh-pages**
+
image:upgrade/rancher-2.10.1-repository-page.png[]

. Go to the *Extensions* screen.

. Locate the extension named *Harvester*, and then click *Update*.

. Select version *1.0.3*, and then click *Update*.
+
image:upgrade/update-harvester-ui-extension-modal.png[]

. Allow some time for the extension to be updated, and then refresh the screen.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The Rancher UI displays an error message after the extension is updated. The error message disappears when you refresh the screen.

This issue, which exists in Rancher v2.10.0 and v2.10.1, will be fixed in v2.10.2. 
====

Related issues:

* https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7234[Issue #7234]
* https://github.com/rancher/capi-ui-extension/issues/107[Issue #107]

== Known Issues

=== 1. Upgrade is stuck in the "Pre-drained" state

The upgrade process may become stuck in the "Pre-drained" state. Kubernetes is supposed to drain the workload on the node, but some factors may cause the process to stall.

image:upgrade/3730-stuck.png[]

A possible cause is processes related to orphan engines of the Longhorn Instance Manager. To determine if this applies to your situation, perform the following steps:

. Check the name of the `instance-manager` pod on the stuck node.
+
Example:
+
The stuck node is `harvester-node-1`, and the name of the Instance Manager pod is `instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a`.
+
----
$ kubectl get pods -n longhorn-system --field-selector spec.nodeName=harvester-node-1 | grep instance-manager
instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a          1/1     Running   0              3d8h
----

. Check the Longhorn Manager logs for informational messages.
+
Example:
+
----
$ kubectl -n longhorn-system logs daemonsets/longhorn-manager
...
time="2025-01-14T00:00:01Z" level=info msg="Node instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a is marked unschedulable but removing harvester-node-1 PDB is blocked: some volumes are still attached InstanceEngines count 1 pvc-9ae0e9a5-a630-4f0c-98cc-b14893c74f9e-e-0" func="controller.(*InstanceManagerController).syncInstanceManagerPDB" file="instance_manager_controller.go:823" controller=longhorn-instance-manager node=harvester-node-1
----
+
The `instance-manager` pod cannot be drained because of the engine `pvc-9ae0e9a5-a630-4f0c-98cc-b14893c74f9e-e-0`.

. Check if the engine is still running on the stuck node.
+
Example:
+
----
$ kubectl -n longhorn-system get engines.longhorn.io pvc-9ae0e9a5-a630-4f0c-98cc-b14893c74f9e-e-0 -o jsonpath='{"Current state: "}{.status.currentState}{"\nNode ID: "}{.spec.nodeID}{"\n"}'
Current state: stopped
Node ID:
----
+
The issue likely exists if the output shows that the engine is either not running or not found.

. Check if all volumes are healthy.
+
----
kubectl get volumes -n longhorn-system -o yaml | yq '.items[] | select(.status.state == "attached")| .status.robustness'
----
+
All volumes must be marked `healthy`. If this is not the case, report the issue.

. Remove the `instance-manager` pod's PodDisruptionBudget (PDB).
+
Example:
+
----
kubectl delete pdb instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a -n longhorn-system
----

Related issues:

* https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7366[[BUG] v1.4.0 -> v1.4.1-rc1 upgrade stuck in Pre-drained and the node stay in Cordoned]
* https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6764[[IMPROVEMENT] Cleanup orphaned volume runtime resources if the resources already deleted]

=== 2. Upgrade with default StorageClass that is not harvester-longhorn

Harvester adds the annotation `storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class: "true"` to `harvester-longhorn`, which is the original default StorageClass. When you replace `harvester-longhorn` with another StorageClass, the following occur:

* The Harvester ManagedChart shows the error message `cannot patch "harvester-longhorn" with kind StorageClass: admission webhook "validator.harvesterhci.io" denied the request: default storage class %!s(MISSING) already exists, please reset it first`.

* The webhook denies the upgrade request.
+
image:upgrade/upgrade-with-another-default-storage-class.png[]

You can perform any of the following workarounds:

* Set `harvester-longhorn` as the default StorageClass.

* Add `spec.values.storageClass.defaultStorageClass: false` to the `harvester` ManagedChart.
+
----
kubectl edit managedchart harvester -n fleet-local
----

* Add `timeoutSeconds: 600` to the Harvester ManagedChart spec.
+
----
kubectl edit managedchart harvester -n fleet-local
----
+
image:upgrade/upgrade-with-another-default-storage-class-workaround.png[]

For more information, see https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7375[Issue #7375].

=== 3. Upgrade is stuck in the "Waiting Reboot" state

The upgrade process may become stuck in the "Waiting Reboot" state after the Harvester v1.4.1 image is installed on a node and a reboot is initiated. At this point, the upgrade controller observes if the Harvester v1.4.1 operating system is running.

If the Harvester v1.4.1 image (hereafter referred to as `active.img`) fails to boot for any reason, the node automatically restarts in fallback mode and boots the previously installed Harvester v1.4.0 image (hereafter referred to as `passive.img`). The upgrade controller is unable to detect the expected operating system, so the upgrade remains stuck until an administrator fixes the problem with `active.img`.

`active.img` can become corrupted and unbootable because of insufficient disk space in the `COS_STATE` partition during the upgrade. This occurs if Harvester v1.4.0 was originally installed on the node and the system was configured to use a separate data disk. The issue does not occur in the following situations:

* The system has a single disk that is shared by the operating system and data.
* An earlier Harvester version was originally installed and then later upgraded to v1.4.0.

To check if the issue exists in your environment, perform the following steps:

. Access the node via SSH and log in using the root account.

. Run the commands `cat /proc/cmdline` and `head -n1 /etc/harvester-release.yaml`.
+
Example:
+
----
# cat /proc/cmdline
BOOT_IMAGE=(loop0)/boot/vmlinuz console=tty1 root=LABEL=COS_STATE cos-img/filename=/cOS/passive.img panic=0 net.ifnames=1 rd.cos.oemlabel=COS_OEM rd.cos.mount=LABEL=COS_OEM:/oem rd.cos.mount=LABEL=COS_PERSISTENT:/usr/local rd.cos.oemtimeout=120 audit=1 audit_backlog_limit=8192 intel_iommu=on amd_iommu=on iommu=pt multipath=off upgrade_failure
    
# head -n1 /etc/harvester-release.yaml
harvester: v1.4.0
----
+
The presence of `cos-img/filename=/cOS/passive.img` and `upgrade_failure` in the output indicates that the system booted into fallback mode. The Harvester version in `/etc/harvester-release.yaml` confirms that the system is currently using the v1.4.0 image.

. Check if `active.img` is corrupted by running the command `fsck.ext2 -nf /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/active.img`.
+
Example:
+
----
# fsck.ext2 -nf /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/active.img
e2fsck 1.46.4 (18-Aug-2021)
Pass 1: Checking inodes, blocks, and sizes
Pass 2: Checking directory structure

    [...a list of various different errors may appear here...]
    
e2fsck: aborted
    
COS_ACTIVE: ********** WARNING: Filesystem still has errors **********
----

. Check the partition sizes by running the command `lsblk -o NAME,LABEL,SIZE`.
+
Example:
+
----
# lsblk -o NAME,LABEL,SIZE
 NAME   LABEL             SIZE
loop0  COS_ACTIVE          3G
sr0                     1024M
vda                      250G
├─vda1 COS_GRUB           64M
├─vda2 COS_OEM            64M
├─vda3 COS_RECOVERY        4G
├─vda4 COS_STATE           8G
└─vda5 COS_PERSISTENT  237.9G
vdb    HARV_LH_DEFAULT   128G
----
+
The output in the example shows a `COS_STATE` partition that is 8G in size. In this specific case, which involves an unsuccessful upgrade attempt and a corrupted `active.img`, the partition likely did not have enough free space for the upgrade to succeed.

To fix the issue, perform the following steps:

. If your cluster has two or more nodes, access the remaining nodes via SSH and check the disk usage of `active.img` and `passive.img`.
+
----
# du -sh /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/*
1.7G    /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/active.img
3.1G    /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/passive.img
----
+
If `passive.img` consumes 3.1G of disk space, run the following commands using the root account:
+
----
# mount -o remount,rw /run/initramfs/cos-state
# fallocate --dig-holes /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/passive.img 
# mount -o remount,ro /run/initramfs/cos-state
----
+
`passive.img` is converted to a sparse file, which should only consume 1.7G of disk space (the same as `active.img`). This ensures that the other nodes have enough free space, preventing the upgrade process from becoming stuck again.

. Access the stuck node via SSH, and then run the following commands using the root account:
+
----
# mount -o remount,rw /run/initramfs/cos-state
# cp /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/passive.img \
    /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/active.img
# tune2fs -L COS_ACTIVE /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/active.img
# mount -o remount,ro /run/initramfs/cos-state
----
+
The existing (clean) `passive.img` is copied over the corrupted `active.img`, and the label is set correctly.

. Reboot the stuck node, and then select the first entry (*Harvester v1.4.1*) on the GRUB boot screen.
+
The GRUB boot screen initially displays *Harvester v1.4.1 (fallback)* by default. Despite the displayed version, the system boots into Harvester v1.4.0.

. Copy `rootfs.squashfs` from the Harvester v1.4.1 ISO to a convenient location on the stuck node.
+
The ISO can be mounted either on the stuck node or on another system. You can copy the file using the `scp` command.

. Access the stuck node via SSH, and then run the following commands using the root account:
+
----
# mkdir /tmp/manual-os-upgrade    
# mkdir /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/config
# mkdir /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/rootfs
# mount -o loop rootfs.squashfs /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/rootfs
# cat > /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/config/config.yaml <<EOF
upgrade:
    system:
        size: 3072
EOF
# elemental upgrade \
            --logfile /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/upgrade.log \
            --directory /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/rootfs \
            --config-dir /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/config \
            --debug
----
+
[NOTE]
====
You must replace the sample path in the fourth line with the actual path of the copied `rootfs.squashfs`.
====  
+
A new (clean) `active.img` is generated based on the root image from the Harvester v1.4.1 ISO.
+
If any errors occur, save a copy of `/tmp/manual-os-upgrade/upgrade.log`.
    
. Run the following commands:
+
----
# umount /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/rootfs
# reboot
----
+
The node should boot successfully into Harvester v1.4.1, and the upgrade should proceed as expected.

Related issues:

* https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7457[[BUG] Stuck upgrade from 1.4.0 to 1.4.1]
* https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7493[[BUG] discrepancy in default OS partition sizes when using separate data disk]
* https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7518[[BUG] after initial installation, passive.img uses 3.1G of disk space, vs. active.img which only uses 1.7G]

Commit message:

Add text per PR 736 (Dismiss it button issue)
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.5/modules/en/pages/upgrades/v1-4-0-to-v1-4-1.adoc, after:

= Upgrade from v1.4.0 to v1.4.1

== General Information

An *Upgrade* button appears on the *Dashboard* screen whenever a new Harvester version that you can upgrade to becomes available. For more information, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#start-an-upgrade[Start an upgrade].

For air-gapped environments, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#prepare-an-air-gapped-upgrade[Prepare an air-gapped upgrade].

[IMPORTANT]
====
Check the disk usage of the operating system images on each node before starting the upgrade. To do this, access the node via SSH and run the command `du -sh /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/*`.

Example:

----
# du -sh /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/*
1.7G    /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/active.img
3.1G    /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/passive.img
----

If `passive.img` (which represents the previously installed Harvester v1.4.0 image) consumes 3.1G of disk space, run the following commands using the root account:

----
# mount -o remount,rw /run/initramfs/cos-state
# fallocate --dig-holes /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/passive.img
# mount -o remount,ro /run/initramfs/cos-state
----

`passive.img` is converted to a sparse file, which should only consume 1.7G of disk space (the same as `active.img`). This ensures that each node has enough free space, preventing the upgrade process from becoming <<3. Upgrade is stuck in the "Waiting Reboot" state,stuck in the "Waiting Reboot" state>>.
====

=== Update Harvester UI Extension on Rancher v2.10.1

To import Harvester v1.4.1 clusters on Rancher v2.10.1, you must use **v1.0.3** of the Rancher UI extension for Harvester.

. On the Rancher UI, go to *local -> Apps -> Repositories*.

. Locate the repository named *harvester*, and then select *⋮ -> Refresh*.
+
This repository has the following properties:
+
* URL: **https://github.com/harvester/harvester-ui-extension**
* Branch: **gh-pages**
+
image:upgrade/rancher-2.10.1-repository-page.png[]

. Go to the *Extensions* screen.

. Locate the extension named *Harvester*, and then click *Update*.

. Select version *1.0.3*, and then click *Update*.
+
image:upgrade/update-harvester-ui-extension-modal.png[]

. Allow some time for the extension to be updated, and then refresh the screen.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The Rancher UI displays an error message after the extension is updated. The error message disappears when you refresh the screen.

This issue, which exists in Rancher v2.10.0 and v2.10.1, will be fixed in v2.10.2. 
====

Related issues: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7234[#7234], https://github.com/rancher/capi-ui-extension/issues/107[#107]

== Known Issues

=== 1. Upgrade Stuck in "Pre-drained" State

The upgrade process may become stuck in the "Pre-drained" state. Kubernetes is supposed to drain the workload on the node, but some factors may cause the process to stall.

image:upgrade/3730-stuck.png[]

A possible cause is processes related to orphan engines of the Longhorn Instance Manager. To determine if this applies to your situation, perform the following steps:

. Check the name of the `instance-manager` pod on the stuck node.
+
Example:
+
The stuck node is `harvester-node-1`, and the name of the Instance Manager pod is `instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a`.
+
----
$ kubectl get pods -n longhorn-system --field-selector spec.nodeName=harvester-node-1 | grep instance-manager
instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a          1/1     Running   0              3d8h
----

. Check the Longhorn Manager logs for informational messages.
+
Example:
+
----
$ kubectl -n longhorn-system logs daemonsets/longhorn-manager
...
time="2025-01-14T00:00:01Z" level=info msg="Node instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a is marked unschedulable but removing harvester-node-1 PDB is blocked: some volumes are still attached InstanceEngines count 1 pvc-9ae0e9a5-a630-4f0c-98cc-b14893c74f9e-e-0" func="controller.(*InstanceManagerController).syncInstanceManagerPDB" file="instance_manager_controller.go:823" controller=longhorn-instance-manager node=harvester-node-1
----
+
The `instance-manager` pod cannot be drained because of the engine `pvc-9ae0e9a5-a630-4f0c-98cc-b14893c74f9e-e-0`.

. Check if the engine is still running on the stuck node.
+
Example:
+
----
$ kubectl -n longhorn-system get engines.longhorn.io pvc-9ae0e9a5-a630-4f0c-98cc-b14893c74f9e-e-0 -o jsonpath='{"Current state: "}{.status.currentState}{"\nNode ID: "}{.spec.nodeID}{"\n"}'
Current state: stopped
Node ID:
----
+
The issue likely exists if the output shows that the engine is either not running or not found.

. Check if all volumes are healthy.
+
----
kubectl get volumes -n longhorn-system -o yaml | yq '.items[] | select(.status.state == "attached")| .status.robustness'
----
+
All volumes must be marked `healthy`. If this is not the case, report the issue.

. Remove the `instance-manager` pod's PodDisruptionBudget (PDB).
+
Example:
+
----
kubectl delete pdb instance-manager-d80e13f520e7b952f4b7593fc1883e2a -n longhorn-system
----

Related issues: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7366[#7366], https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6764[#6764]

=== 2. Upgrade with Default StorageClass That Is Not harvester-longhorn

Harvester adds the annotation `storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class: "true"` to `harvester-longhorn`, which is the original default StorageClass. When you replace `harvester-longhorn` with another StorageClass, the following occur:

* The Harvester ManagedChart shows the error message `cannot patch "harvester-longhorn" with kind StorageClass: admission webhook "validator.harvesterhci.io" denied the request: default storage class %!s(MISSING) already exists, please reset it first`.

* The webhook denies the upgrade request.
+
image:upgrade/upgrade-with-another-default-storage-class.png[]

You can perform any of the following workarounds:

* Set `harvester-longhorn` as the default StorageClass.

* Add `spec.values.storageClass.defaultStorageClass: false` to the `harvester` ManagedChart.
+
----
kubectl edit managedchart harvester -n fleet-local
----

* Add `timeoutSeconds: 600` to the Harvester ManagedChart spec.
+
----
kubectl edit managedchart harvester -n fleet-local
----
+
image:upgrade/upgrade-with-another-default-storage-class-workaround.png[]

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7375[#7375]

=== 3. Upgrade Stuck in "Waiting Reboot" State

The upgrade process may become stuck in the "Waiting Reboot" state after the Harvester v1.4.1 image is installed on a node and a reboot is initiated. At this point, the upgrade controller observes if the Harvester v1.4.1 operating system is running.

If the Harvester v1.4.1 image (hereafter referred to as `active.img`) fails to boot for any reason, the node automatically restarts in fallback mode and boots the previously installed Harvester v1.4.0 image (hereafter referred to as `passive.img`). The upgrade controller is unable to detect the expected operating system, so the upgrade remains stuck until an administrator fixes the problem with `active.img`.

`active.img` can become corrupted and unbootable because of insufficient disk space in the `COS_STATE` partition during the upgrade. This occurs if Harvester v1.4.0 was originally installed on the node and the system was configured to use a separate data disk. The issue does not occur in the following situations:

* The system has a single disk that is shared by the operating system and data.
* An earlier Harvester version was originally installed and then later upgraded to v1.4.0.

To check if the issue exists in your environment, perform the following steps:

. Access the node via SSH and log in using the root account.

. Run the commands `cat /proc/cmdline` and `head -n1 /etc/harvester-release.yaml`.
+
Example:
+
----
# cat /proc/cmdline
BOOT_IMAGE=(loop0)/boot/vmlinuz console=tty1 root=LABEL=COS_STATE cos-img/filename=/cOS/passive.img panic=0 net.ifnames=1 rd.cos.oemlabel=COS_OEM rd.cos.mount=LABEL=COS_OEM:/oem rd.cos.mount=LABEL=COS_PERSISTENT:/usr/local rd.cos.oemtimeout=120 audit=1 audit_backlog_limit=8192 intel_iommu=on amd_iommu=on iommu=pt multipath=off upgrade_failure
    
# head -n1 /etc/harvester-release.yaml
harvester: v1.4.0
----
+
The presence of `cos-img/filename=/cOS/passive.img` and `upgrade_failure` in the output indicates that the system booted into fallback mode. The Harvester version in `/etc/harvester-release.yaml` confirms that the system is currently using the v1.4.0 image.

. Check if `active.img` is corrupted by running the command `fsck.ext2 -nf /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/active.img`.
+
Example:
+
----
# fsck.ext2 -nf /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/active.img
e2fsck 1.46.4 (18-Aug-2021)
Pass 1: Checking inodes, blocks, and sizes
Pass 2: Checking directory structure

    [...a list of various different errors may appear here...]
    
e2fsck: aborted
    
COS_ACTIVE: ********** WARNING: Filesystem still has errors **********
----

. Check the partition sizes by running the command `lsblk -o NAME,LABEL,SIZE`.
+
Example:
+
----
# lsblk -o NAME,LABEL,SIZE
 NAME   LABEL             SIZE
loop0  COS_ACTIVE          3G
sr0                     1024M
vda                      250G
├─vda1 COS_GRUB           64M
├─vda2 COS_OEM            64M
├─vda3 COS_RECOVERY        4G
├─vda4 COS_STATE           8G
└─vda5 COS_PERSISTENT  237.9G
vdb    HARV_LH_DEFAULT   128G
----
+
The output in the example shows a `COS_STATE` partition that is 8G in size. In this specific case, which involves an unsuccessful upgrade attempt and a corrupted `active.img`, the partition likely did not have enough free space for the upgrade to succeed.

To fix the issue, perform the following steps:

. If your cluster has two or more nodes, access the remaining nodes via SSH and check the disk usage of `active.img` and `passive.img`.
+
----
# du -sh /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/*
1.7G    /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/active.img
3.1G    /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/passive.img
----
+
If `passive.img` consumes 3.1G of disk space, run the following commands using the root account:
+
----
# mount -o remount,rw /run/initramfs/cos-state
# fallocate --dig-holes /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/passive.img 
# mount -o remount,ro /run/initramfs/cos-state
----
+
`passive.img` is converted to a sparse file, which should only consume 1.7G of disk space (the same as `active.img`). This ensures that the other nodes have enough free space, preventing the upgrade process from becoming stuck again.

. Access the stuck node via SSH, and then run the following commands using the root account:
+
----
# mount -o remount,rw /run/initramfs/cos-state
# cp /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/passive.img \
    /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/active.img
# tune2fs -L COS_ACTIVE /run/initramfs/cos-state/cOS/active.img
# mount -o remount,ro /run/initramfs/cos-state
----
+
The existing (clean) `passive.img` is copied over the corrupted `active.img`, and the label is set correctly.

. Reboot the stuck node, and then select the first entry (*Harvester v1.4.1*) on the GRUB boot screen.
+
The GRUB boot screen initially displays *Harvester v1.4.1 (fallback)* by default. Despite the displayed version, the system boots into Harvester v1.4.0.

. Copy `rootfs.squashfs` from the Harvester v1.4.1 ISO to a convenient location on the stuck node.
+
The ISO can be mounted either on the stuck node or on another system. You can copy the file using the `scp` command.

. Access the stuck node via SSH, and then run the following commands using the root account:
+
----
# mkdir /tmp/manual-os-upgrade    
# mkdir /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/config
# mkdir /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/rootfs
# mount -o loop rootfs.squashfs /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/rootfs
# cat > /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/config/config.yaml <<EOF
upgrade:
    system:
        size: 3072
EOF
# elemental upgrade \
            --logfile /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/upgrade.log \
            --directory /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/rootfs \
            --config-dir /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/config \
            --debug
----
+
[NOTE]
====
You must replace the sample path in the fourth line with the actual path of the copied `rootfs.squashfs`.
====  
+
A new (clean) `active.img` is generated based on the root image from the Harvester v1.4.1 ISO.
+
If any errors occur, save a copy of `/tmp/manual-os-upgrade/upgrade.log`.
    
. Run the following commands:
+
----
# umount /tmp/manual-os-upgrade/rootfs
# reboot
----
+
The node should boot successfully into Harvester v1.4.1, and the upgrade should proceed as expected.

Related issues: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7457[#7457], https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7493[#7493], https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7518[#7518]

=== 4. Upgrade Restarts Unexpectedly After Clicking "Dismiss it" Button

When you use Rancher to upgrade {harvester-product-name}, the Rancher UI displays a dialog with a button labeled "Dismiss it". Clicking this button may result in the following issues:

* The `status` section of the `harvesterhci.io/v1beta1/upgrade` CR is cleared, causing the loss of all important information about the upgrade.
* The upgrade process restarts unexpectedly.

This issue affects Rancher v2.10.x, which uses v1.0.2, v1.0.3, and v1.0.4 of the xref:../integrations/rancher/harvester-ui-extension.adoc#support-matrix[Harvester UI Extension]. All {harvester-product-name} UI versions are not affected. The issue will be fixed in Harvester UI Extension v1.0.5 and v1.5.0.

To avoid this issue, perform either of the following actions:

* Use the {harvester-product-name} UI for upgrades. Clicking the "Dismiss it" button on the {harvester-product-name} UI does not result in unexpected behavior.
* Instead of clicking the button on the Rancher UI, run the following command against the cluster:
+
----
kubectl -n harvester-system label upgrades -l harvesterhci.io/latestUpgrade=true harvesterhci.io/read-message=true
----

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7791[#7791]
