versions/v1.5/modules/en/pages/upgrades/v1-4-2-to-v1-5-1.adoc, before:

= Upgrade from v1.4.2 or v1.4.3 to v1.5.1

== General information

An *Upgrade* button appears on the *Dashboard* screen whenever a new {harvester-product-name} version that you can upgrade to becomes available. For more information, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_start_an_upgrade[Start an upgrade].

You can directly upgrade from v1.4.2 to v1.5.1 because {harvester-product-name} allows a maximum of one minor version upgrade for underlying components. {harvester-product-name} v1.4.2 and v1.4.3 use the same minor version of {rke2-product-name} (v1.31), while {harvester-product-name} v1.5.0 and v1.5.1 use the next minor version (v1.32).

For air-gapped environments, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_prepare_an_air_gapped_upgrade[Prepare an air-gapped upgrade].

=== Update the Harvester UI Extension on {rancher-product-name} v2.11.0

To import {harvester-product-name} v1.5.1 clusters, you must use **v1.5.1** of the Harvester UI extension.

. On the {rancher-short-name} UI, go to *local -> Apps -> Repositories*.

. Locate the repository named *harvester*, and then select *⋮ -> Refresh*.

. Go to the *Extensions* screen.

. Locate the extension named *Harvester*, and then click *Update*.

. Select version *1.5.1*, and then click *Update*.

. Allow some time for the extension to be updated, and then refresh the screen.

== Known issues

=== 1. Air-gapped upgrade stuck with `ImagePullBackOff` error in Fluentd and Fluent Bit pods

The upgrade may become stuck at the very beginning of the process, as indicated by 0% progress and items marked *Pending* in the *Upgrade* dialog of the {harvester-product-name} UI.

image::upgrade/upgrade-dialog-with-empty-status.png[]

Specifically, Fluentd and Fluent Bit pods may become stuck in the `ImagePullBackOff` status. To check the status of the pods, run the following commands:

[,bash]
----
$ kubectl -n harvester-system get upgrades -l harvesterhci.io/latestUpgrade=true
NAME                 AGE
hvst-upgrade-x2hz8   7m14s

$ kubectl -n harvester-system get upgradelogs -l harvesterhci.io/upgrade=hvst-upgrade-x2hz8
NAME                            UPGRADE
hvst-upgrade-x2hz8-upgradelog   hvst-upgrade-x2hz8

$ kubectl -n harvester-system get pods -l harvesterhci.io/upgradeLog=hvst-upgrade-x2hz8-upgradelog
NAME                                                        READY   STATUS             RESTARTS   AGE
hvst-upgrade-x2hz8-upgradelog-downloader-6cdb864dd9-6bw98   1/1     Running            0          7m7s
hvst-upgrade-x2hz8-upgradelog-infra-fluentbit-2nq7q         0/1     ImagePullBackOff   0          7m42s
hvst-upgrade-x2hz8-upgradelog-infra-fluentbit-697wf         0/1     ImagePullBackOff   0          7m42s
hvst-upgrade-x2hz8-upgradelog-infra-fluentbit-kd8kl         0/1     ImagePullBackOff   0          7m42s
hvst-upgrade-x2hz8-upgradelog-infra-fluentd-0               0/2     ImagePullBackOff   0          7m42s
----

This occurs because the following container images are neither preloaded in the cluster nodes nor pulled from the internet:

* `ghcr.io/kube-logging/fluentd:v1.15-ruby3`
* `ghcr.io/kube-logging/config-reloader:v0.0.5`
* `fluent/fluent-bit:2.1.8`

To fix the issue, perform any of the following actions:

* Update the Logging CR to use the images that are already preloaded in the cluster nodes. To do this, run the following commands against the cluster:
+
[,bash]
----
# Get the Logging CR names
OPERATOR_LOGGING_NAME=$(kubectl get loggings -l app.kubernetes.io/name=rancher-logging -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
INFRA_LOGGING_NAME=$(kubectl get loggings -l harvesterhci.io/upgradeLogComponent=infra -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")

# Gather image info from operator's Logging CR
FLUENTD_IMAGE_REPO=$(kubectl get loggings $OPERATOR_LOGGING_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.fluentd.image.repository}")
FLUENTD_IMAGE_TAG=$(kubectl get loggings $OPERATOR_LOGGING_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.fluentd.image.tag}")

FLUENTBIT_IMAGE_REPO=$(kubectl get loggings $OPERATOR_LOGGING_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.fluentbit.image.repository}")
FLUENTBIT_IMAGE_TAG=$(kubectl get loggings $OPERATOR_LOGGING_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.fluentbit.image.tag}")

CONFIG_RELOADER_IMAGE_REPO=$(kubectl get loggings $OPERATOR_LOGGING_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.fluentd.configReloaderImage.repository}")
CONFIG_RELOADER_IMAGE_TAG=$(kubectl get loggings $OPERATOR_LOGGING_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.fluentd.configReloaderImage.tag}")

# Patch the Logging CR
kubectl patch logging $INFRA_LOGGING_NAME --type=json -p="[{\"op\":\"replace\",\"path\":\"/spec/fluentbit/image\",\"value\":{\"repository\":\"$FLUENTBIT_IMAGE_REPO\",\"tag\":\"$FLUENTBIT_IMAGE_TAG\"}}]"
kubectl patch logging $INFRA_LOGGING_NAME --type=json -p="[{\"op\":\"replace\",\"path\":\"/spec/fluentd/image\",\"value\":{\"repository\":\"$FLUENTD_IMAGE_REPO\",\"tag\":\"$FLUENTD_IMAGE_TAG\"}}]"
kubectl patch logging $INFRA_LOGGING_NAME --type=json -p="[{\"op\":\"replace\",\"path\":\"/spec/fluentd/configReloaderImage\",\"value\":{\"repository\":\"$CONFIG_RELOADER_IMAGE_REPO\",\"tag\":\"$CONFIG_RELOADER_IMAGE_TAG\"}}]"
----
+
The status of the Fluentd and Fluent Bit pods should change to `Running` in a moment and the upgrade process should continue after the Logging CR is updated. If the Fluentd pod status is still `ImagePullBackOff`, you can delete the pod to force it to restart.
+
[,bash]
----
UPGRADE_NAME=$(kubectl -n harvester-system get upgrades -l harvesterhci.io/latestUpgrade=true -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')
UPGRADELOG_NAME=$(kubectl -n harvester-system get upgradelogs -l harvesterhci.io/upgrade=$UPGRADE_NAME -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')

kubectl -n harvester-system delete pods -l harvesterhci.io/upgradeLog=$UPGRADELOG_NAME,harvesterhci.io/upgradeLogComponent=aggregator
----

* On a computer with internet access, pull the required container images and then export them to a TAR file. Next, transfer the TAR file to the cluster nodes and then import the images by running the following commands on each node:
+
[,bash]
----
# Pull down the three container images
docker pull ghcr.io/kube-logging/fluentd:v1.15-ruby3
docker pull ghcr.io/kube-logging/config-reloader:v0.0.5
docker pull fluent/fluent-bit:2.1.8

# Export the images to a tar file
docker save \
  ghcr.io/kube-logging/fluentd:v1.15-ruby3 \
  ghcr.io/kube-logging/config-reloader:v0.0.5 \
  fluent/fluent-bit:2.1.8 > upgradelog-images.tar

# After transferring the tar file to the cluster nodes, import the images (need to be run on each node)
ctr -n k8s.io images import upgradelog-images.tar
----
+
The upgrade process should continue after the images are preloaded.

- (Not recommended) Restart the upgrade process with logging disabled. Ensure that the *Enable Logging* checkbox in the *Upgrade* dialog is not selected.

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7955[#7955]

Commit message:

Add and edit text per PR 813 (Longhorn issue #11158)
Signed-off-by: Jillian <jillian.maroket@suse.com>

versions/v1.5/modules/en/pages/upgrades/v1-4-2-to-v1-5-1.adoc, after:

= Upgrade from v1.4.2 or v1.4.3 to v1.5.1

== General information

An *Upgrade* button appears on the *Dashboard* screen whenever a new {harvester-product-name} version that you can upgrade to becomes available. For more information, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_start_an_upgrade[Start an upgrade].

You can directly upgrade from v1.4.2 to v1.5.1 because {harvester-product-name} allows a maximum of one minor version upgrade for underlying components. {harvester-product-name} v1.4.2 and v1.4.3 use the same minor version of {rke2-product-name} (v1.31), while {harvester-product-name} v1.5.0 and v1.5.1 use the next minor version (v1.32).

For information about upgrading {harvester-product-name} in air-gapped environments, see xref:./upgrades.adoc#_prepare_an_air_gapped_upgrade[Prepare an air-gapped upgrade].

=== Update the Harvester UI Extension on {rancher-product-name} v2.11.0

You must use **v1.5.1** of the Harvester UI Extension to import {harvester-product-name} v1.5.1 clusters on {rancher-short-name} v2.11.0.

. On the {rancher-short-name} UI, go to *local -> Apps -> Repositories*.

. Locate the repository named *harvester*, and then select *⋮ -> Refresh*.

. Go to the *Extensions* screen.

. Locate the extension named *Harvester*, and then click *Update*.

. Select version *1.5.1*, and then click *Update*.

. Allow some time for the extension to be updated, and then refresh the screen.

== Known issues

=== 1. Air-gapped upgrade stuck with `ImagePullBackOff` error in Fluentd and Fluent Bit pods

The upgrade may become stuck at the very beginning of the process, as indicated by 0% progress and items marked *Pending* in the *Upgrade* dialog of the {harvester-product-name} UI.

image::upgrade/upgrade-dialog-with-empty-status.png[]

Specifically, Fluentd and Fluent Bit pods may become stuck in the `ImagePullBackOff` status. To check the status of the pods, run the following commands:

[,bash]
----
$ kubectl -n harvester-system get upgrades -l harvesterhci.io/latestUpgrade=true
NAME                 AGE
hvst-upgrade-x2hz8   7m14s

$ kubectl -n harvester-system get upgradelogs -l harvesterhci.io/upgrade=hvst-upgrade-x2hz8
NAME                            UPGRADE
hvst-upgrade-x2hz8-upgradelog   hvst-upgrade-x2hz8

$ kubectl -n harvester-system get pods -l harvesterhci.io/upgradeLog=hvst-upgrade-x2hz8-upgradelog
NAME                                                        READY   STATUS             RESTARTS   AGE
hvst-upgrade-x2hz8-upgradelog-downloader-6cdb864dd9-6bw98   1/1     Running            0          7m7s
hvst-upgrade-x2hz8-upgradelog-infra-fluentbit-2nq7q         0/1     ImagePullBackOff   0          7m42s
hvst-upgrade-x2hz8-upgradelog-infra-fluentbit-697wf         0/1     ImagePullBackOff   0          7m42s
hvst-upgrade-x2hz8-upgradelog-infra-fluentbit-kd8kl         0/1     ImagePullBackOff   0          7m42s
hvst-upgrade-x2hz8-upgradelog-infra-fluentd-0               0/2     ImagePullBackOff   0          7m42s
----

This occurs because the following container images are neither preloaded in the cluster nodes nor pulled from the internet:

* `ghcr.io/kube-logging/fluentd:v1.15-ruby3`
* `ghcr.io/kube-logging/config-reloader:v0.0.5`
* `fluent/fluent-bit:2.1.8`

To fix the issue, perform any of the following actions:

* Update the Logging CR to use the images that are already preloaded in the cluster nodes. To do this, run the following commands against the cluster:
+
[,bash]
----
# Get the Logging CR names
OPERATOR_LOGGING_NAME=$(kubectl get loggings -l app.kubernetes.io/name=rancher-logging -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
INFRA_LOGGING_NAME=$(kubectl get loggings -l harvesterhci.io/upgradeLogComponent=infra -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")

# Gather image info from operator's Logging CR
FLUENTD_IMAGE_REPO=$(kubectl get loggings $OPERATOR_LOGGING_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.fluentd.image.repository}")
FLUENTD_IMAGE_TAG=$(kubectl get loggings $OPERATOR_LOGGING_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.fluentd.image.tag}")

FLUENTBIT_IMAGE_REPO=$(kubectl get loggings $OPERATOR_LOGGING_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.fluentbit.image.repository}")
FLUENTBIT_IMAGE_TAG=$(kubectl get loggings $OPERATOR_LOGGING_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.fluentbit.image.tag}")

CONFIG_RELOADER_IMAGE_REPO=$(kubectl get loggings $OPERATOR_LOGGING_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.fluentd.configReloaderImage.repository}")
CONFIG_RELOADER_IMAGE_TAG=$(kubectl get loggings $OPERATOR_LOGGING_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.fluentd.configReloaderImage.tag}")

# Patch the Logging CR
kubectl patch logging $INFRA_LOGGING_NAME --type=json -p="[{\"op\":\"replace\",\"path\":\"/spec/fluentbit/image\",\"value\":{\"repository\":\"$FLUENTBIT_IMAGE_REPO\",\"tag\":\"$FLUENTBIT_IMAGE_TAG\"}}]"
kubectl patch logging $INFRA_LOGGING_NAME --type=json -p="[{\"op\":\"replace\",\"path\":\"/spec/fluentd/image\",\"value\":{\"repository\":\"$FLUENTD_IMAGE_REPO\",\"tag\":\"$FLUENTD_IMAGE_TAG\"}}]"
kubectl patch logging $INFRA_LOGGING_NAME --type=json -p="[{\"op\":\"replace\",\"path\":\"/spec/fluentd/configReloaderImage\",\"value\":{\"repository\":\"$CONFIG_RELOADER_IMAGE_REPO\",\"tag\":\"$CONFIG_RELOADER_IMAGE_TAG\"}}]"
----
+
The status of the Fluentd and Fluent Bit pods should change to `Running` in a moment and the upgrade process should continue after the Logging CR is updated. If the Fluentd pod status is still `ImagePullBackOff`, you can delete the pod to force it to restart.
+
[,bash]
----
UPGRADE_NAME=$(kubectl -n harvester-system get upgrades -l harvesterhci.io/latestUpgrade=true -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')
UPGRADELOG_NAME=$(kubectl -n harvester-system get upgradelogs -l harvesterhci.io/upgrade=$UPGRADE_NAME -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')

kubectl -n harvester-system delete pods -l harvesterhci.io/upgradeLog=$UPGRADELOG_NAME,harvesterhci.io/upgradeLogComponent=aggregator
----

* On a computer with internet access, pull the required container images and then export them to a TAR file. Next, transfer the TAR file to the cluster nodes and then import the images by running the following commands on each node:
+
[,bash]
----
# Pull down the three container images
docker pull ghcr.io/kube-logging/fluentd:v1.15-ruby3
docker pull ghcr.io/kube-logging/config-reloader:v0.0.5
docker pull fluent/fluent-bit:2.1.8

# Export the images to a tar file
docker save \
  ghcr.io/kube-logging/fluentd:v1.15-ruby3 \
  ghcr.io/kube-logging/config-reloader:v0.0.5 \
  fluent/fluent-bit:2.1.8 > upgradelog-images.tar

# After transferring the tar file to the cluster nodes, import the images (need to be run on each node)
ctr -n k8s.io images import upgradelog-images.tar
----
+
The upgrade process should continue after the images are preloaded.

- (Not recommended) Restart the upgrade process with logging disabled. Ensure that the *Enable Logging* checkbox in the *Upgrade* dialog is not selected.

Related issue: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7955[#7955]

=== 2. Virtual machines that use migratable RWX volumes restart unexpectedly

Virtual machines that use migratable xref:integrations/rancher/csi-driver.adoc#_rwx_volumes_support[RWX volumes] restart unexpectedly when the CSI plugin pods are restarted. This issue affects {harvester-product-name} v1.4.x, v1.5.0, and v1.5.1.

The workaround is to disable the setting https://documentation.suse.com/cloudnative/storage/1.8/en/longhorn-system/settings.html#_automatically_delete_workload_pod_when_the_volume_is_detached_unexpectedly[Automatically Delete Workload Pod When The Volume Is Detached Unexpectedly] on the {longhorn-product-name} UI before starting the upgrade. You must enable the setting again once the upgrade is completed.

The issue will be fixed in {longhorn-product-name} v1.8.3, v1.9.1, and later versions. {harvester-product-name} v1.6.0 will include {longhorn-product-name} v1.9.1. 

Related issues: https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/8534[#8534] and https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/11158[#11158]
